Recently, I've received e-mails from tech recruiters inquiring about whether I'd like to interview for job interviews. The main problems I have with these emails are:   1. I'm a college student, and nowhere have I indicated that I want a full time job, but all these opportunities are for full time work.    2. The position descriptions are so vague that they could apply to many, many people.    3. In addition to #2, most of the e-mails seem to be machine generated, and I am wary of people who just send out mass emails. I don't want to disable the "receive emails from others option" and I don't have anything against technical recruiters, but I don't want to apply to the position and I definitely don't want to send my resume to them. In this thread on establishing relationships with unsolicited recruiters, there are a lot of negative points made about recruiters, and this especially stood out to me: > P.S. I once very unfortunately established "relationships" with two spam > centers called computerfutures and progressiverecruitment and haven't been > able to get my data out of their systems ever since. They periodically spam > irrelevant ads and ignore all my requests for data removal and compliance. > That's not a relationship you're seeking. :) > > P.S.#2. A piece of advice. Whenever you decide to publish your CV in the > wild, a good idea is to remove your phone number from there. It will > effectively stop phone drones who depend on being able to harass and squeeze > you on the phone hunting for colleague names and references. They however > prove to be not inclined to waste time and engage in long email exchange > with you preferring to just move on to the next target. This will lower your > manual filtration efforts and save you hours of your phone time. It seems like talking to recruiters is a waste of time and potentially a big hassle, but I don't want to just ignore emails either. **How should you go about politely declining a recruiter such that you can contact them when you want but won't have to worry about being bombarded by them? Is that even possible, or is ignore and forget the best option?**