I have been working on a new project. The project works like this: The end user can access a webapp using a link and he can add multiple systems on his network and manage that particular systems details. My part involves the front end and the webserver, which is done in python. My python actually communicates with another project which is entirely done in c & c++. The c/c++ project is the main app which does all the functionality. My python sends the user request to it and displays the response from it to the user. I am very familiar with my work and I will finish it soon. Since that's not much work in it. And I am a person who loves to work. I spends most of the time in office and only go home when I feel sleepy. The c/c++ app is managed by another colleague who has 5+ year experience and can do things much faster than me, but he never does it. May be he doesn't like to do it. His app crashes often when my python communicate with it or returns wrong values. It's full of bugs. Since my app depends on it, I am having a hard time building it. Instead of fixing the bugs, he asks me to slow down my work. He asks me to tell manager that my work needs a lot of time. He is asking me to fool the manager and even forcing me to work slowly like him. During project meeting, when manager asks him about the bugs he says that he fixed everything and it works fine. Since he is my colleague, I couldn't tell anything to the manager. I obviously need to have a good relationship with my colleagues more than my manager, since most of the time we will be with our colleagues, not with the manager. I am not able to tell the manager anything regarding this, since if manager asks him why, then he may think I complained about him to the manager. And he keeps on lying in the meeting. And since he fixes the bug slowly, it even slows down my work. Now I thought of working on the front-end part of my app and finishing it off so that in the mean time he can make his project stable. Now he is asking me to tell the manager that my front end part require a lot of work and I may need more and more time, simply so that he can drag the project down. And the sad thing is our actual manager has gone to the US, so we have a temporary manager and this guy doesn't know about the project much, so the c,c++ just fools him. Can anyone suggest me how I deal with this? I wanted to finish off the project soon. How can I make him work even by maintaining a good relationship with him? ### Responses to comments: > If he's really deliberately misleading the company, you should report him to > management. I am new to this company and the other guy has been there for many years. And I have just started knowing my colleagues. If I directly go and complaint him, I don't think so I can make good relationship with my other colleagues. Even he has the power to mislead them. I am not telling he is a bad guy, he can do the work, but he is not doing it. > Doesn't your company have any kind of bug tracking system ? Here actual bug tracking system isn't there. The company tries to finish off the project as soon as possible and gives it to the QA. And then fixes the bugs reported by QA. > This is why companies should give employees stock / options or some sort of > ownership. That way you can literally tell the guy "You are costing me > monetary growth... don't you want to make money also?". The company has the stock options they have given me a 2500 share, mostly he too would have got some more. > Seniority does deserve some benefit of a doubt. You really need to speak to > him first and try to understand the problem. He may be out of his depth, you > may be able to help him, there could easily be variables you are unaware of. > It may be hard now, but you could easily make the situation a lot worse by > jumping the gun. I even does it, first his app wasn't handling multiple requests at a time, he was using a queue to handle the requests I sent to him. I even suggested to him some of my ideas on it. He said he already had these ideas, and will be executing them. His explanations was: "Everything require certain time to do and this is a project which may need two years to complete and we are asked to finish it in two months". I used to have a hard time coding during first few weeks because of this bug. But now he fixed it. But he is using a single queue for a user requests and that is now slowing down the app, since it processes one request at a time. > What is QA doing this whole time? Why aren't they reporting/confirming the > status of the project(s)? The manager is the person who decides when to give to the QA. As of now it has not yet given to QA. He said we should give it by this month end.