There are a lot of posts on this but I'm kinda looking for specific help, I've typed many different queries into Google but the majority of page returns seem to be dominated by beginner tutorials, planning, generators, and lots of other rubbish related information, It may have something to do with that fact that I'm rubbish at searching for content on search engines, but that's besides the point! I'm just about to endeavour on an adventure to create a pretty stylish looking, very functional, adaptable website. But I don't want to miss anything out. Its happened too many times where I've come up with an idea, planned, planned, designed, implemented, then realised I've missed something, or something's wrong and I've had to turn the website on its head in order to compensate. Im sure other people have had similar situations. My Question is: What is everything I need to consider before actually coding my website? I'm talking from coding standard, implementation, design aspect,abstract point of view. Currently, I have:   * designed the look of the website.   * Made storyboard like diagrams for every page, action, event.   * invented content.   * designed a style guide.   * mapped animation.   * modularised my functions.   * considered audience.   * considerend diversity (including cross-browser compatibility, screen resolution and font size)   * created a nice directory       AND FINALLY...   * have included my frameworks (css reset, jQuery, images, wordpress, etc) Is There anything else? What am I not considering? I just wanted to make sure I've covered every aspect before I sit down (with my brand new coffee machine) and code like a fairy on crack. If anybody has come across any worthy articles... Please share. But please, no "how to make a website" beginner articles. Purely in the context of the question. Personal preferences and responses are preferred! What planning/design steps do you take before embarking on a monster website mission? Thank you for reading this long ~~ASS~~ boring question Alex