First off, I think my title is maybe a bit vague, so feel free to edit. My current situation is as follows. I recently decided to leave the previous company I worked for due to a number of reasons, but considering the work I was doing there I was never unhappy. Now, however, at my new job, it is a different story. When I interviewed here to be a developer, the world was promised. _"Yes, you will be coding, designing, etc. etc."_ , but that is definitely not the case. As a developer, when assuming a role as a primary developer (to clarify, primary here means I should be primarily coding, not a lead developer), I would expect the following breakdown:   * 50% - 60% actual coding   * 20% design   * the rest - testing / admin etc. Is this an unrealistic expectation? Currently, my breakdown is as follows:   * 1% actual coding   * 95% testing / upgrading / wondering why everything is breaking that the previous guys have done   * 4% drinking coffee, as the boredom is killing me I realize that for some people that might be what they want to do, but coming from quite an academic background, I enjoy problem-solving and grappling with a problem until you figure it out. And off-course, doing a lot of coding. It has actually reached a point once or twice where I was told to roll back changes I have made (for the better!) becuase: _"Yes, I know it's better, but revert because it wasn't the task assigned to you!"_ And I mean, it's not like it took me a day of work which I could have spent otherwise, it was 5 minute changes. Now, my real question is this. Seeing as I'm feeling that I will not grow as a developer here, how fast should I get out of this? Should I stay a while longer and see if things change? I have spoken to some of the other developers here and they say that this is just the way things are. A group of about 10 people write about 99% of the code, and they have all been here for about 10 years. My two concerns are:   1. I would probably have to take a pay cut if I move, since they pay quite generously here.   2. Having a company for 2 - 3 months on your CV doesn't always look good. I could really use some help from someone who has some experience in this? Maybe someone has had a similar situation? Thanks!