I have always been fascinated with the newest and best technologies available. I graduate from college this year, and over the course of the past few years, I have spent a lot of time learning new programming languages, web frameworks, Linux distributions, IDEs, etc., in an effort to find the best of each. I have installed and played around with Ubuntu, Gentoo, Debian, Arch Linux, SUSE, VectorLinux, Puppy Linux, Slackware, and Fedora, I have spend a good amount of time in Vim and Emacs, and have played around with Visual Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, gedit, and several more obscure ones. I have played with all sorts of languages - I started with the common ones like C, Java, Visual Basic, but always heard that they were "bad" (for relative definitions of bad). I then discovered the scripting languages and have quite a bit of experience in PHP, Perl, Python, and Ruby. Then I heard that functional languages are where it's at, so I played around with Scheme, Lisp, Haskell, Erlang, and OCaml. I've played around with obscure languages like Forth and J. When I do web development, I go back and forth between frameworks and languages. Should I use plain PHP, Ruby on Rails, Django, CakePHP, CodeIgniter, Yii, Kohana, or make my own? I have a very broad and shallow knowledge of computer science. As soon as I have learned a useful amount of one technology, I see something else shiny and go after it. My progression often goes like this: "Perl is better than PHP, but wait, Python is better than Perl. Oh, but now I see that Ruby has the power of Perl and it is cooler than Python. Well, now that I have seen a little of Ruby, it is too complicated. Python is cleaner. Oh, but it is too hard to deploy Python, so I should use PHP if I want to do real web development." And so on and so forth. What technology should I use for projects? Should I just pick one language/framework/IDE and sort of forget about the other things that are available for a while? I don't have all that much in the way of completed projects, because I never stay with something long enough to finish it.