I am student pursuing Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication at my university. While pursuing my course, I started to work on some projects related to CS. Computers being my favourite from the very foundation, I kept on working on towards my passion for these three years winning some awards, writing a paper, doing projects etc. I am currently in fourth year now and I am thinking to totally switch my branch to CS for masters. I always work to build innovative solutions to problems like software for disabled, something for education, or be it software for environment etc. There is no certain subject for solutions but innovation and novelty is certainly what I yearn for while scheming inventive solutions. The problem is that I am not able to find the correct path to go for the masters i.e. the diversification of courses is taking a toll. Mostly, there are HCI courses in universities which focus to build these innovative solutions but, I was trying to parallel MS in CS & MS in HCI. There looks like more of a focus on drawing/arts type if thing in HCI which I don’t want to go ahead with but what I do want is building up creative solutions with technical ingenuity. A person in HCI also has all the same technical skills as that of a CS student, then where does the difference arise? Let’s say as a very odd example, can a HCI student apply for SDET positions for example at a big firm, instead of User Experience Design etc. since he is having the same skill set? Or, in terms of monetarist paybacks, is there a difference between salaries of CS graduates and HCI graduates? I do not want to remain as an interaction designed submitting just on-paper designs of things. I do want to surface with more imaginative ideas. At the current stage, what’s stopping me is that I am a little lesser than the technical knowhow as compared to a full time CS student since I put in the effort for all the CS prep myself (being a non-core CS student). I presently need to learn more about CS at a reputed place while pursuing these projects. So, is it really HCI that I should be going for or is there is some other contour that I haven’t given a thought to? Please help me out. Thanks