I'm a high school senior, and I'm applying for various colleges. Among them, Stony Brook, which I understand has a very good CS program. My grades are good, so I'm not concerned about getting into college; however, I _do_ want to get into Computer Science Honors. The Honors courses are smaller, and the core sequence is two courses rather than three (though since I'm in AP Computer Science, which I find to be a joke, I don't really benefit from the compressed lessons). However, they want a 93 GPA (amongst some great SAT scores that I already have), and I'm at a 93.24. I want to maintain this so I can get into the program and enjoy the smaller class sizes. Great, except that the studying I do in high school (three AP courses, including CS) eats heavily into the time I'd like to spend programming. If I had zero homework after school, or even no school, then I would jump on my computer immediately and continue this one program I'm working on, which is ironically something that outputs the courses I want to take in college in a neat and formatted HTML file. That's why I can't wait to get to college. I did the math, and on average I'd be in class much less in college than in high school, freeing me up to program (which I'd be doing a lot of anyway). Of course, I do make time in the evenings to relax so I can maintain sanity and sleep; but by then, it's close to bedtime, and I'm not as "on the ball" as I'd like to be, especially since I try to get to bed by 11 (maybe midnight). Weekends seem to be a theoretically good time to program, if I don't have homework, but why limit myself to two days of the week? I might also be good for mornings, but if I'm sitting through a Forensic Science lecture then how will I know? I do have around six months of independent C++ studying under my belt, as well as some Processing. You can see a bit more, plus two projects, on my site; obviously, I give a damn about making cool things, that's not the issue. Yes, I do want to make games, thanks for guessing, but that will come later on once I have some experience under my belt. I also have a study hall in school, but this may not actually be the best time for me to program; my school actually gives computers to its students, but does not allow them to bring their own from home. My development environment is there, but not here, and shifting code back and forth really breaks the flow and makes things difficult, in my opinion. Also, Code::Blocks doesn't seem to work on my school computer, which really blows. (I spent today's study hall writing this sob story up.) Ultimately, what I ask here is, what advice can you guys offer in setting aside time to program? I'm something of a perfectionist, which I really hope won't be my downfall. I'm currently at a point where I have to compromise to get my coursework done; I'm behind on some calculus, for instance, and didn't study very much for my test today because I spent last night reading The Communist Manifesto and a chapter about Russia from my AP Comparative Government textbook. Oh, and I own an Arduino if that inspires any solutions.