I'm developing an authentication library (*) for a website and I realized that maybe I'm not completely understanding what an "autologin" feature is, and how to develop it. While gathering infos and studying other code I came across a couple of libraries which implement the option to login the user without having to sign in (these libraries are Tank Auth and Ion Auth, built for the PHP framework CodeIgniter); basically they work on creating a cookie which, in case the user is not logged (session datas are not set) but this cookie is found, it allows them to login nonetheless. Ok, so far it's clear. What I don't understand, though, is why both library _delete_ the autologin cookie when the user logs out. I mean: I log in, I check the "remember me" option (**), I do what I need to do in my admin panel, then I log out; if the autologin cookie is deleted, next time I'll have to log in again by filling the form, ignoring the option I flagged. What's its purpose then? I thought this "autologin" would be an extendend login which allowed me to _avoid_ having to fill in the sign in form again. So I went on and developed my autologin feature, but of course I bumped into the problem of not being able to logout _at all_ , as I'm not deleting it. So I log out, redirect to the home page, then go to the admin panel and the system logs me in...well, it works as expected, but I'm not sure if this is how it's meant to be...How should this be done correctly? Can someone explain to me how this actually should work? I'm getting a bit confused P.S. Don't know if this is the right place to ask it, or if SO is a better fit; I'm sorry if I posted on the wrong SE site. (*) Please don't tell me _"don't reinvent the wheel"_ or any variant of it; I'm doing this to learn and I'm planning to make it an open source project for the public amusement, so I volutarily _do_ want to reinvent the wheel, at the cost of making it oval. (**) I think I guessed the difference between the "remember me" option and the "autologin" feature; so far, I didn't consider the first one ( 1-because many browsers ask you to do that nonetheless; 2-because I don't know how to do it right, i.e. how to have the login fields automatically filled without this posing the security threat of having the password stored in clear text inside a cookie), but please tell me if I misunderstood this also..