> **Possible Duplicate:**   >  Is it better to specialize in a single field I like, or expand into other > fields to broaden my horizons?   >  Do Diversified Skills Foster or Hinder Specialization? Afternoon, I am seeking some career guidance, as the road seems to be splitting, winding and veering off in many different directions. It is my desire to be a professional software engineer, focusing (more so) on web applications. My background in web design lead me to php, mysql and minimal javascript (as so many have). From here I'm starting to learn visual studio, C# MS SQL and many tools / scripting languages that I feel would make me a better programmer and asset to a web team (REGEX, HTML5, MSSQL,). The more I dwell into Visual Studio, ASP.NET aspx syntax ( <% %> ) and now reading the up coming razor syntax. I am starting to get this feeling of cornering, isolation from those who develop in areas that I also find interesting. I get it, it's just the nature of life when you become specified in any area of expertise, you have to focus somewhere or you'll be a jack of all trades. But at the same time I would love to "reach over" and be able to dab into objective-C or Java, so I can design web applications that are intended for cross-platform use. It is not my intention to come of whining, I'm just looking to be told "it'll be ok, push hard an any of these directions and you'll be able to do anything you want." Where, my next 4 years of effort in becoming an asset in C# and asp.net will no damn me to a life of servitude to Microsoft technology related jobs. Upon my visit to Google's HQ back in April it really inspired me and opened my eyes a bit. But from what I hear their technological push does not utilize any C# or .NET for that matter. So I guess a summed up question would be: Do professional software engineers have the freedom (and time for that matter) to learn, professes and become an asset of other technological sectors? Does one who masters Visual Studio also have a mastery of VIM or EMACS?