I was checking out what version of Firefox I'm using and it was telling me that I'm on the 'release update channel'. So I googles "Update Channel" and I finds this seemingly antiquated MSDN article which has a confusing bit of ASP.NET pre-processed into the article to give you the sense that you both should not use this technology and should never have used this technology. > Microsoft Active Channel technology is obsolete as of Windows Internet > Explorer 7 and should not be used. Users want an easy and convenient way to > download and install new versions of software. Software Update Channels are > specialized channels that you can use to notify users of software updates > and also deliver and install the updates on their computers. Users who have > downloaded your software and subscribed to your Software Update Channel are > notified when new versions of your software become available. When notified > of an update, users can click a gleaming icon representing your channel, > which returns them to your download site so they can obtain the new version. > Users can also choose to have software updates delivered and installed on > their computers automatically. > > Active Channel technology is obsolete as of Internet Explorer 7 and should > not be used. This article introduces you to the terminology, benefits, and > implementation of Software Update Channels. After reading this article, you > will understand how easy it is for users to discover and interact with this > technology, and you will know how to create your own Software Update > Channels. Links to relevant overviews, references, and tutorials are > provided at the end of the article. So, I ask you. Is this still some sort of metaphor for getting software easily to your clients. If I store the info for my programs updates in a database, is there existing non-obsolete Microsofty technology that could take a generated XML file and tell people using my software that there are updates available and you should probably download them?