My company has developed a web application based on GWT (Google Web Toolkit) and Ext GWT in the browser, JBoss application server and Oracle in the backend. The app allows users of different departments of the same company, working in different locations, to collaborate in order to employ a fairly complex approval process for really expensive technical equipment. Let's call this app app 1. The app is dialog-based, using Ext GWT's Desktop component to provide an MDI app within a browser window. It's been used productively for more than a year now. Another app, app 2, also has been developed which offers a specific subset of the functionality of App 1. By subset I mean that \- some dialogs are not provided (like those for administration of master data or system settings) \- some dialogs are reused but some input or display fields are missing \- some data are filtered (users will only see a subset of the information that is available to users of app 1) \- some dialogs are completely identical Currently, app 2 is there but nobody uses it, because it has not been officially published to anyone and nobody has an account to log in. The goal for 2012 is to open app 2 to a host of new users. These will be working at different companies in different locations all over Germany and potentially neighboring countries (Austria, Switzerland, France, ...) as well. It is not possible to get all new users together and give them a training of several days in order to learn how to use the app and the process. The documentation that exists so far is a user manual, a PDF file of more than 100 pages, to be found through a "?" menu. Both apps have been developed by my company for another company. None of these two have very much experience with providing and supporting a public web application for the rest of the world. So, what can we do in order to provide people with information and assistance on how to use this app? Here are the measures that I've come up with so far:   * Provide a start page (just static HTML) before the login screen that describes (shortly!) what this app is and why users would want to log in and use it. Also, how to obtain a login and where to find support   * Create a guided tour of short videos (created with Camtasia Studio) of at most 3 minutes each. Those will guide through the most important use cases step by step. I'm thinking of something like this https://sourcing.thyssenkrupp.info/lvportal/external/guidedtour/tk_uk_files/uk_html.html which was created a couple years ago in a very similar situation   * A start screen, which will pop up immediately after login. It will show a list of command links with a short explanatory text for the most frequent use cases. Also, it will provide a direct link to the guided tour and the user manual   * A task-oriented list of item counts for the user (like on every line something like "Items on which you have to do X", "Items on which you have to do Y" etc). This list will be either integrated into the background of the desktop-in-a-browser-window or put into a docked area to the left of the desktop itself   * I'm also considering an FAQ page. But of course there haven't been any questions asked yet so we don't know what to put there. So the idea is to have ab easily updatable page of static HTML content. Or maybe a miniature CMS integrated into the app itself. Any comments on those measures and any further suggestions are welcome.