I recently interviewed for a position at a large Fortune 500 company at the recommendation of a friend. Yesterday, they made me an offer for 55k. I currently work at a small, 35 person company making 50k. I interned there for six months, and was converted officially to a full time employee a year and two months ago (I worked full time as an intern but had no benefits). Pros about the company I'm currently with:   * Small, I can talk to the boss directly or pull him aside whenever   * Wide array of responsibilities - I can go from doing .Net development to working on a database at any given time. May program one minute and talk to our customer for clarification the next.    * Very comfortable. I love the people I work with. We get a lot of awesome small benefits that would come with a small company. Family atmosphere - very close to who I work with.    * Excel at the job. I do what I do very well. There's a future in terms of job security.    * Passionate. I love what I work on - aeronautics. I find it fascinating. The big company works with trading stocks, and I have no care for that field at all - I fear I'll get bored because of that.   * Vacation hours. 24 vs. 12 at new company. Pros of big company:   * Work alongside two great friends. They have personally attested to really enjoying the job.    * Better pay, better benefits.    * Much more accelerated skill set development. Where the small company lets me flex a wide array of skills, this company will ultimately make me a better programmer, as I feel that I'm not quite learning as much as I should - they aren't entirely up to date on some higher level programming concepts.    * Recognizable name may get foot in the door later for better jobs elsewhere. The decision has me wrecked. I'm not quite sure what to do. Advice? I don't plan on staying at the small company forever, as I'd like to go somewhere that pushes me harder and allows me to learn a lot, but I'm just not sure if this is the place I want to jump to. Should I, or should I keep looking?