Until recently, I was the sole developer on several in-house projects. A few months ago, we added 0.4 of an FTE to our development team. It's nice not being alone on our projects, but it hasn't been easy. A bit of background: when I started in my position, there was no use of source control, issue tracking, or even testing. I implemented all of these practices myself, and the improvement in productivity has been noticed by multiple stakeholders. Our new 0.4FTE is basically 40% of the time of an employee in another department. He's a competent programmer, but collaboration has been difficult. Several months in, I'm still experiencing:   * Emailed source files rather than repositories being checked in to Git.   * Use of email and instant messaging instead of the issue tracker to discuss the project.   * Resistance to code reviews.   * Ego getting in the way of pair programming or early collaboration on components (i.e., I don't want to show you the source for this yet, it's ugly). Our department is weird. Our team lead has to divide his time between project management, system administration, and hardware installs/support. We got into probably the worst argument we've ever had over how I expected to interact with another developer vs. "This is just how he is, you need to email in addition to submitting an issue, etc." My question is, how do you deal with this? I've tried various approaches; refusing to acknowledge issues without a ticket, refusing to look at code not checked in to our Git repo, but ultimately, I'm the de facto lead developer on this project, and like it or not, I shoot myself in the foot by being a stickler for process. At the same time, I'm driving myself crazy (to the point of looking for a new job) in the process of trying to deal with the lack of coherent (or at least, enforceable) guidelines. I've brought up the notion with colleagues outside our department that maybe it's just a bad fit, but sadly, we don't have much of an option at this point. Any ideas for ameliorating this situation would be greatly appreciated.