I ask this, because after two weeks of intense labor with no off-time (eat, sleep, program) I cracked today and went into a rage. Afterwards I fell into a mild depression for a couple of hours before I could finally compose myself and finish my project goals for the day. This is my first project and I took great care in designing a good solution that met all the requirements. The deadline was set very, very tight (less than a week to develop the entire frontend application) and I coded well into the night. This was ok for me, I didn't mind doing so if I knew that 1) I made the system flexible enough to adapt to new change and 2) this is the first project I'm developing on my own and I wanted to make a good impression. What really got me was the lack of communication forcing me to throw out large sections of my code. This needless rework left me without a night's sleep, which is admissable if it didn't happen again. What DID happen was that, on the day the backend people wanted to see some results on the frontend they HAD CHANGED THE SPECS WITHOUT TELLING ME. And then grew annoyed when I grew annoyed at the change! So not only did I have to rework my code because of a miscommunication, I had to rework my code because changes happened that I wans't even informed of! People acting as if it's my fault for missing something like that just tipped me over the edge. I blew up, decided to call it quits and take a walk. I talked to my boss about this, and although he's sympathetic, says that things like requirement changes, overtime, looming deadlines and miscommunication occasionally happen and that I should just take it with a little more ease. (He thinks I'm taking my job way too seriously and should just relax a bit.) I'm just a college student and this is my first job, so I would like to ask this as broadly as possible. What I have described here is the backstory for a hopefully general question: How resilient should I be to these kinds of stressors? Is two weeks too short? Is this common and I really am making a big deal out of it? Should I expect my work life to be filled with these kinds of mishaps and something I will have to deal with if I want to make a living as a programmer? PS: While I can imagine some people (like my professor) advising me to find a new job, this is not in the spirit of the question. I am not asking for career advice- I can tell how badly this is affecting my health and needs to change.