So I'm about to submit a game to a competition, but as I looked through the rules a chunk grabbed my attention: > All Entries become the sole and exclusive property of Sponsor and will not > be acknowledged or returned. Sponsor shall own all right, title and interest > in and to each Entry, including without limitation all results and proceeds > thereof and all elements or constituent parts of Entry (including without > limitation the Mobile App, the Design Documents, the Video Trailer, the > Playable and all illustrations, logos, mechanicals, renderings, characters, > graphics, designs, layouts or other material therein) and all copyrights and > renewals and extensions of copyrights therein and thereto. Without > limitation of the foregoing, each Eligible Entrant shall and hereby does > absolutely and irrevocably assign and transfer all of his or her right, > title and interest in his or her Entry to Sponsor, and Sponsor shall have > the right and may authorize others to use, copy, sublicense, transmit, > modify, manipulate, publish, delete, reproduce, perform, distribute, display > and otherwise exploit the Entry (and to create and exploit derivative works > thereof) in any manner, including without limitation to embody the Entry, in > whole or in part, in apps and other works of any kind or nature created, > developed, published or distributed by Sponsor and to and register as a > trademark in any country in Sponsor’s name any component of the Entry, > without such Eligible Entrant reserving any rights or claims with respect > thereto. Sponsor shall have the exclusive right, in perpetuity, throughout > the Territory to change, adapt, modify, use, combine with other material and > otherwise exploit the Entry in all media now known or hereafter devised and > in any manner, in its sole and absolute discretion, without the need for any > payment or credit to Entrant. So the game will become the sponsor's property; however, they don't ask for source code. So will I still own the rights to the source code, whatever that means? And if it doesn't win said competition, will I be able to publish it myself without their trademarks? I am very new to software legality stuff, so I would appreciate any clarification. Since there's a possibility I won't even own the source, is it possible to make the game core engine open source software with a not-very-restrictive license and include that in the project, so I at least still own the game engine? Or does it not work that way?