I'm currently working with a professor at my university to develop new curricula for the Software Engineering and Capstone Design courses offered in my college. Up until recently, both courses used the waterfall model exclusively, and thus students spent a majority of their time writing lengthy reports. After much pressure from me, my professor decided to include Scrum in the Software Engineering curriculum this past semester. The first half of the semester was still waterfall-esque, with students writing 40-page design reports and software specification documents. Mid- semester, all teams were required to release a demo of their applications. At that point, the course switched to Scrum, with two 3-week sprints. We are now trying to figure out how to eliminate waterfall altogether and create an exclusively Scrum-based curriculum. Unfortunately, we encountered a few incompatibilities between Scrum and the students:   * Daily Scrum meetings are nearly impossible for students. Even during the class itself, it's inconvenient for students to hold Scrum meetings since the professor is usually lecturing.   * Estimating points/hours is difficult, since students are inexperienced and therefore can't accurately predict how long something will take.   * Scrum works best with full-time, co-located developers, but students are neither. At most, students dedicate 15-20 hours per week to the course, and organizing work meetings can be extremely difficult. Teams can have up to 10 students (and there's always one or two slackers).   * Professors crave documentation! I haven't heard of any Scrum reports—just the backlogs and burndown charts (which I'm not sure will be enough to appease the academics).   * Students often assume that agile means "Jump right in and start coding without looking back". This leads to some of the most horrible code imaginable. Therefore, I'm looking for a way to enforce proper design without requiring a 50-page document or a pile of UML diagrams. Given these problems, how do you think my professor and I can adapt Scrum to function in an academic environment (and should we even bother with Scrum in the first place)? Also, is there still value to teaching the waterfall model? Thanks in advance for any feedback!