I just graduated from university with a degree in Computer Science/Engineering and was fortunate enough to land a job working in the pharmaceutical industry as a developer. My title is System Developer I, which will require the following skills: 0-3 years development experience with C# .NET and SQL Server Experience writing T-SQL and stored procedures XML Javascript I learned of the company at a job fair and was not aware that I would need those skills for the job until after they wanted to set up an interview with me. The interview consisted of talking about my background, an almost-too- simple logic test, and a couple SQL questions that anyone with any experience should be able to answer. I was honest with them and indicated that I had absolutely no experience with SQL Server, .NET, XML, or Javascript, but they offered me the position anyway. Of course, I accepted it, but I am now extremely worried that my skills will not be up to snuff. I fully realize from reading lots of Coding Horror, Stack Overflow, and The Daily WTF that a degree in Comp Sci in no way prepares me to be a software developer; I further realize that I will be a monumental noob in the presence of people who have been doing this for years. I feel like the only thing that makes up for my lack of development experience and programming knowledge are my social skills, innate writing ability, and humility (at least compared with some of my co-graduates who fancied themselves to be the next Steve Jobs... _barf_ ) You will never find me being the prima donna constantly complaining about the system, the language, etc... I just want to do my job like I'm told, work 9 - 5, and go home with my paycheck feeling like I'm competent. If that requires home-study, I'm more than willing because I do love programming and computer science. So far, I've familiarized myself a bit on using SQL Server Management Studio, gave myself a refresher on basic SQL, and started learning more about C# and .NET using Introducing Visual C# 2010 by Adam Freeman from Apress. Can anyone recommend anything else I can do in the meantime to: A. Chill the _*_ * out and enjoy my new job without worrying so much about getting canned for incompetence B. Improve my understanding of design patterns and OOP C. Get the low-down on writing T-SQL in the most efficient way possible Thanks everyone.