I don't know if this question is more on-topic here or on SO, so if I've missed site, I apologize. Anyway I was talking with a relative recently. She is working in a company which needed a website. They contracted another company which does web-apps and graphical design to make them a website, give source code and do maintenance. The site is supposed to give general economic propaganda about the company, to have a news section and to have a portal for associates where they will be able to get statistical information like amount of sales of their products and similar stuff. The last part was supposed to read data from the database used by the All-in-One program used by my relative's company. The project was supposed to last three to six months and use LAMP (or WAMP) AJAX and Python. Unfortunately six months passed almost four times since the start of the project and the only results are couple of mock-up images. Furthermore they seem to be in a mess. They are avoiding contact and are always complaining how developers keep quitting after just couple of months of work and that they can't make a stable project team (on a side-note, they did websites for several other companies on time, so they were capable of producing the result at one time). By now it is clear that the project will not be done any time soon and my relative's company is considering firing the contractors and taking whatever they did make and finding someone else to finish the work. Unfortunately, their IT guy didn't do any programming since PDP-11 era, so he won't be very helpful and it looks like it will be up to me to inspect whatever contractors did. I did some programming, but only a little bit of web programming, so my question is: What should I expect to find in the code-base and resources? The thing is that they I have reasons to suspect that they share code across different projects and may attempt to weasel out parts of it. I know that there will probably be a part with resources used by the site like images and so on and that there will probably be a database and some scripts. Also, if you think that this should be turned into community-wiki or general "Failed Project: How to recover anything useful from it?" discussion, please comment. Also, court is not a solution, because they are so efficient in my country that its decision would probably come in early 2020s.