I've had an internal promotion interview for gain a higher level programmer title, something like Senior plus. And I've been interviewed by around 7 people using different technology, and people using the same technology with me(.Net) tend to ask very technique detailed question which can actually easily been found via Google, like what is JIT, how GC works, difference between List and Array, abstract class and interface, delegate and event, even what is the class name when you process Upload file, etc. And I've got only one question asked about one of my design idea in my project and just simple discussion. But for most other my design choice they seems just not interested. I didn't get the result yet and it would be about late this week, but here is my concern: I personally think when I play as a senior programmer, I mainly solving problems, and I just need to know there are some certain way can make it happen but I may not remember every detailed thing, and that's should be why we have those detailed reference documentation like MSDN. I feel it fine if you found I've not too much experiences around this area like Junior to Intermediate level, but when tend to interview higher level guy, isn't you should more focus to see how this guy logical thinking is and how good is he/she at solving problems? Does everybody just think if you know every detailed small point tech stuff then you are a Senior+. And by checking those interview question books I found there are more those kind of questions. If I spend 5 days go through those interview question list book I can easily make those guys feel a wow, but does that really mean anything? This kind of interview can easily let those guys good at remember things gain higher salary even they have no idea how to solve difficulty problem. So why is this happening on the world, is that just cause problem solving skills, design skills are hard to measure? I've serve this company for years and only had few interview with other companies so I wonder is that every company doing the same thing? Or is this actually just my own problem that I should try harder to remember everything in MSDN in my mind so that I can work even without it and internet? **EDIT** For better explain my situation regarding Frank's concern about job tasks. Sorry it's my bad didn't clarify those background. There actually will be no specifically job's task changes, I personally think what I've done already played as a senior, like code review, mentor members, review BA's doc and give technique opinions, design architecture of new projects, it's just my title still stayed without senior and I asked to get one to reflect pay slip and lead to such an interview. This is a Saas company so people stay in one project as long as that product is still alive, this leads they need people be able to design more new features based on current product, fixing technique difficulty on live servers, design/code review/mentoring members And higher level title based on technique would be Architect and we do not have any job similar with Technical Expert. And I agree if you want to play Technical Expert role you should know more detail about the tech you use. Sorry it's my bad didn't clarify those background.