Disclaimer: Opinions expressed are solely my own and do not express the views or opinions of my employer. I work for a small company, in which few people are developers, others are QA/Test and 1 is a Manager. I joined this company 1.5 years ago. 3 senior developers have 8+ years of experience. These are the observations which I made about the team lead. (considering me as a fresher with less experience compared to them in all aspects )   1. They never discuss 1:1 or they never consider the junior suggestion (I agree that it's up to them, whether they accept it or not, at least they should consider an opinion).    2. As senior team leader they can try to refactor the codebase with new technologies ( including the factor of rolling out new technologies is possible and other developer and infrastructure also ready), but these team leader feel less in-secure to work with new technologies, as they are not up to date. (reason I am telling, they don't know what current programming trend, *(such as popular open source projects like modernizr, bootstrap and many others).    3. In our codebase more than 10000+ lines are repeated, so I told them about `DRY: Don't Repeat yourself`. Their reply was : "It is a fascinating article, but never works in practice". I just told them if we do not make it 100% DRY, we can at least use interfaces, but that also was not considered. *(interfaces can be added for new features, not touching the previous codebase, if they are not ready to refactor)    4. All senior developers do maintenance and hot fixing of patches. The rest of the time they just spend on entertainment sites. They are just happy to finish the task.    5. Introducing new technology is bad? *(including factor of feasibility can be done).    6. Manager also least concerned about the things which I am talking about.    7. Junior expects they can learn many things from team lead. *(not by asking help or senior coding for them).  My questions are:   1. Am I too aggressive about the changes which I am proposing?    2. What should I expect from senior dev leads who have 8+ years experience?    3. Am I wrong to expect to learn and gain experience from a company? Update : Why they feel DRY is impractical: because they don't want get involved with OOP concepts. They are happy with repeating tasks. New technologies I am proposing:   1. Usage of Minification of CSS, JS, SPrite images    2. Usage of Interfaces and .net framework 4, generics and many others.   3. Client side libraries such as modernizr, knockout js, bootstrap for responsive,