I have been developing web applications in PHP from two years and have worked with three organizations. I started with no programming knowledge at all, I had interest in web development so I read some books, followed tutorials and hang out with web developers to learn how to develop websites which took me to PHP and than eventually towards programming and I really enjoyed it. Learning OOP, studying servers behaviours, doing amazing things with JS, working and understanding with frameworks like Zend and Yii was quite an experience for me. My ideals also changed from movie stars to persons like Dennis Ritchie and Matt Mullenweg. It took a while to get a job when I got my first things became pretty easy but one thing that I came across while working in the small software houses is that they really don't worry about the code all they want is to get the thing done by any means so that can deliver the project on time to their clients. This is actually really disturbing I have switched two organizations just to excel in programming and contribute in the field of IT as much as I can but it doesn't seems possible if I continue working in the organizations which are much focused on client and don't bother to compromise on the quality of code. My dream companies are wordpress and the organizations which have developed open source PHP frameworks like zend, yii etc. Why? because they are AMAZING and just because of their contributions web has become so amazing and rapid development is in reach of every developer but I am not sure whether I will be able to get a chance in such companies or not because I don't have a degree not because I never wanted but because I really never had a choice. I was on my own from the teenage and it was not possible for me to afford the education and now when I have the resources I am lacking in time and focus. I have a full time job, blog and some responsibilities. Will it be ever possible to work in my dream companies or which are similar to my dream companies