I have been working on a project for several months now to write a web-based tool that will help me at work. I work at a call center and the CRM software that is used is wretched, we basically have to input all of our information into notepad templates and then paste it in to a description box. My initial goal was to create a web-interface for the templates so that I didn't have to use notepad anymore. I was just going to write it with HTML5/CSS/JS, both as a learning experience and, if I was fortunate enough, an opportunity for advancement. As I worked on coding this tool I continuously found myself changing the foundation of the project, attempting to integrate more functionality in my tool. It has gotten to the point where I want the tool to be used alongside the CRM software for every call I receive. I want to be able to simply copy the customer's information off of CRM (simply with Ctrl + A/Ctrl + C), then be able to paste the block of jumbled text into a text box. The program will then pick out the customer's info by looking for keywords in specific positions to fill out a user selected template. The rest of the information is input manually and then the output is generated with the push of a button. The information will also be parsed into a backup text file. The text file will be created automatically based on the date. If the text file for the current date exists, it will simply concatenate the info. As I wrote my code I found myself getting distracted looking at different coding languages and possibilities. I kept looking back at what I had completed and I was disappointed, I've started over from scratch two times now. Now for the actual question: I am thinking of starting over, writing my program with AngularJS. I like the idea of a smooth, single page, app-like interface, but I'm scared of hitting more barriers and starting over using something else. Based on my description of how I want my program to run, can anyone suggest how to go about implementing this? Should I look into a different language, or is JS really the way to go these days? I just discovered Dart and am intrigued, but the idea of learning yet another language is discouraging instead of exciting. I feel like I'm missing a pretty big point. I hope this question is appropriate for this forum. I feel a bit lost with StackExchange, and the last thing I want to do is receive negative attention for a bad post. I'm just feeling a bit lost when it comes to this project, and perhaps even programming in general. Regardless, any feedback will be appreciated. Even direction to a forum for emotionally distraught fledgeling programmers would be a welcome answer. >.< Thank you.