I have a scripting engine I just published as an open source project. It's been sitting on my harddrive waiting for about a year. My engine of course isn't complete in any way, but it does work for simple scripts. It has a javascript-ish feel to it, but I don't wish to abide by the ECMA spec or anything. Now, the big thing I'm working on is improving code quality while leaving the language working as it is(which I have a few regression tests to "prove"). It doesn't have a formal grammar at all and works like so:   1. Preprocess/Tokenize. At this point it removes whitespace and cuts everything into "tokens", which is basically just a structure containing a string and a rough "hint" as to what the token is (Number, Identifier, Operation, etc) and some debugging info such as line number   2. A ScriptingEngine class which takes the list of tokens and actually parses them and executes them   3. An "ExpressionEvaluator" class which will take a subset of the tokens list and build a specific tree of operations, values, and then execute operations and such and collapse the tree down into a single value My engine has the goals of being portable(works everywhere .Net does) and self-contained. So far, this "works", but the code is terrible and I'm pretty sure that I'm going about it the wrong way. I'm wondering if a formal grammar and everything that goes with it might help Some benefits I've heard of being more formal with grammar   * Unambiguous specification of the language   * Easier to maintain/change   * More traditional/Bigger community support?  And some of the disadvantages   * Some languages can be very difficult to reduce to a formal grammar, ie Perl.   * A learning curve for someone not in the know(ie, me)    * Generally rely on tools such as yacc and ANTLR, which introduce another step in your workflow and/or add dependencies(which I'd like to avoid) Although this project is in .Net, it could equally apply to any other implementing language. Should I use a formal grammar? Can someone expand on the pros/cons of both sides?