Our intranet is running an in house developed ASP.NET application. In our team I am the only technical person so this means my role is everything from development to server administration to "the printer isn't working". In a couple of months once a major rewrite is finished I am taking a couple of weeks holiday and we need to get someone in to cover for this period. I am at a loss of what skill set we should be looking for to cover over a short term. Being a major upgrade there will of course be bugs, though it will be up long enough to deal with any that are particularly worrisome and/or common. From this point of view I'm thinking that given the short timescales getting in a developer would be the wrong choice (small bugs can wait, big bad bugs that area left would likely be the sort that experience and time to learn the system would be needed to fix, I am of course insisting on a laptop and VPN to deal with this if it happens). Looking this way I'm thinking that someone with server administration skills would be the preferable route (able to keep the servers up if they go down, restart services if needed etc), though it still leaves a lot of leeway in the specifics to look for. Also despite the above opinion on getting a developer, being able to look through the code to pinpoint where a bug is interacting with the servers could of course be useful. Half the problem is of course that there's lots to cover with nothing in particular standing out as the big area to focus on. Here's a breakdown of what we have, any advice or ideas would be greatly appreciated.   * In house ASP MVC2 application, includes some custom JavaScript on the front end   * Legacy ASP Classic (some areas of the intranet that aren't yet upgraded, running in tandem with the MVC application)   * Mediawiki install running on Apache and MySql on Windows   * Servers are running Windows 2008 and SQL2008   * Powershell backup scripts   * Simple C# reverse proxy (the intranet uses Windows authentication, we allow an external organisation access to the intranet so this proxy acts as their gateway and authenticates as a known generic user)