I'm a team leader of a team of 8 programmers in a company of about 20 technical people. They're working on a range of projects, these projects also involve people from other teams that are outside of my control. My organisation is not doing proper agile development, and they're somewhat resistant to change, but I've been holding daily stand up meetings within my team and we've all been finding them useful and everyone is engaged and we're done within 10-15 minutes. I also have weekly individual catch ups with every team member where we discuss various general topics (both technical and non- technical) in more detail, as well as various ad-hoc topical meetings. What I've been struggling with, however, is my weekly team meeting. It is losing steam and I have not been able to keep people interested. I still want to hold a longer meeting, even if it has to be fortnightly or monthly. The purpose was to discuss various topics that cannot be done during a stand up meeting because they require more time. Updates from me include a summary on every current project that they're working on (whether it is on schedule, various delays, etc), any changes in direction, future projects, changes to development process, etc. However, it ends up being a lecture from me, and at least 2 people are obviously zoned out and the rest are at most mildly interested. I tried getting people to be more engaged by getting them to talk about their week, but with 8 people it takes a long time and (partly because a lot of their work does not cross over all that much), most of the rest team does not care what their co-workers have been working on in more detail (they get a high level overview during stand ups). So, during these meetings, at least some people are very bored, and it is almost embarrassing for me to keep holding these. It is a stark contrast to our energised morning stand up meetings. Any advice on what I can do to keep people more engaged and more interested? And how can I get them to present things on their or start discussions that involve everyone instead of it being a monologue from me?