When writing software I'm often forced to at some point to make a decision that involves a design pattern of "by convention" naming and behavioral patterns. This normally makes me feel kind of slimy as a .NET developer because nearly everything is statically typed (arguably even the dynamic type is statically typed, but others have covered this well, go read their blogs, they will thank you for it.) Naturally I encountered others with opposing views who felt that in many cases, convention based naming and behavioral patterns are actually helpful in that they allow for cleaner, more readable, and more consistent code. It was even stated that depending on how far that convention is taken, for instance into a type reflection name determined behavior scenario, that it might even enforce good naming by breaking functionality if naming in inconsistent with the established conventions. All of this brought me around to the place where the love and passion for development goes to die, "Testing." I came up with the following hypothesis: > Using naming conventions and associated behavioral or structural rules > associated with those conventions, it should be possible to write tests for > the product that enforce that behaviors and structures associated with names > are implemented correctly by reflecting the available target binaries. > Furthermore it should also be possible to enforce a by convention design > that doesn't allow for the misuse of naming conventions by means of having > names that fall under the naming conventions that don't follow those same > behavioral or structural rules to be used inappropriately (i.e something > with the word Locator in the type name that doesn't implement the service > locator pattern.) Has anyone ever investigated this kind of architectural and design testing and provability? What have your experiences been with writing architecture and convention tests? What challenges have you faced and what solutions have you devised? Are there frameworks or tools for doing this? Is there research on the subject done that has been peer reviewed?