Where I work we have over a dozen internal SW systems that we have developed in-house using a variety of technologies, frameworks, and languages. Those include various from Microsoft (ASP.NET Web Forms, WebAPI, WinForms, SharePoint, Office Automation, Win8 Native Apps, SQL Server, SSRS) and others not from Microsoft (plain-old JS/HTML/CSS, PHP, Lithium, PostgreSQL, MySQL). Our SW dev team has grown and shrunk again to where it's just me and one other dev now. I love trying shiny new tech and taking advantage of different tools to get things done, which partly explains the huge span of different technologies we've chosen over the years, but we're suffering from the "jack of all trades, master of none" syndrome. Now we've been told that the company is expecting significant new growth and that the two of us will need to produce a number of new applications over the next year. I'm ready to consolidate our skill sets and tool sets so that we can master the tools and focus more on the business problems we will face without having the slowdown of context switching between technologies. The two of us have been doing a lot of "plain old" JS/HTML5/CSS3 development recently and I would like to focus on that technology set moving forward. We will be primarily using PostgreSQL as our data store on the back end (possibly augmenting with some NoSQL for very specific uses, and probably needing to find an advanced full-text search tool to integrate in). Our primary user interfaces will be a combination of traditional web apps and Single Page Apps (50%-50% mix), but there is the hope for native mobile apps down the line. Therefore I would like to expose our business data via a RESTful API so that it's easy to consume by various clients. And **the most important factor in all of this is that I want to be able to code exclusively in Javascript from front to back** (with the exception of writing SQL as necessary for the DB layer, and HTML5/CSS3 for the presentation). This leaves me with the following questions:   1. Is it possible today to code all these layers/components exclusively in Javascript without resorting, for example, to PHP on the server, or C# for the RESTful API (i.e., WebAPI)?   2. Is node.js required to make this a reality, or can I use a non-node web server and still achieve the "Javascript-only" ideal? (related...would node.js just make more sense in a JS-only paradigm?)   3. Are there any frameworks for building JS-only RESTful APIs that can talk to PostgreSQL?   4. Are there any advanced full-text search tools (such as Lucene) that allow you to program against them with a JS-only approach?