The third party login is excellent function that has come in recent years that relieves the load on a programmers mind so that I have to remember less useless passwords. I don't use the same password for many sites, I use an algorithm: for instance if I make a password for StackOverflow its name starts with S so I'll put in an S and then with my secret sentence so the password for SO will be something like `i81b4uS`, e.g. my secret phrase plus some token that makes the password not the same for every since since I don't want the disaster if some site saves my password in plaintext and gets hacked (then somebody would have access to all my online material if I used the same password). Biological metrics are good but this technology is not here. In the future we will probably only have to unlock at one point all our online material, instead of providing the system so many locks. Google's 2-step verification is flexible and goo but it's not perfect. Are there other, perhaps newer, or less known, authentication methods for instance that simplifies the common use-cases of renewing a password (where it is often tedious to check your mail where you often get interrupted, and providing the old password to change it to a new etc) and reset password, which is a lot like renew a password? I'm not asking for the detail of which algorithm, but rather if there are newer and more effective flows, like third party login which made me start an account at SO where I landed with me Google account, that puts less of a burden on the user's mind and manual memory and that are also safe? At my site I offer authentication much like SO and SE, where you can login at my site just like SO with Google, FB, Linkedin, Yahoo or custom accounts. I've used webapp2's user model to facilitate my logins and the simpleauth library for GAE (python). What would especially be good would be getting rid of email altogether and not bugging users about their email address at all. Some users are hesitant to leave their email, and email is often too much of a direct contact. So many users have smart-phones and androids so that there could be one app for many sites that does the authentication via smart-phone or a desktop app or a large third-party like Google, FB or Yahoo where I can offer Google, FB, Yahoo, LinkedIn so that a user can have a choice not to make up a new password, since that can be painful if you already have memorized 40 passwords for different sites and services.