I use Delphi since 1999 because it is visual, fast, helpful and committed to good programming roles. That's what I tell my friends in the university and interviewer when I apply for a job in any software house. But I am very criticized for using Delphi and for Windows development. It is prejudice IMHO. They say I should use open source technologies and develop in Java, Ruby, Python and other "new" technologies, and I should only develop for the Web and cross-platform. I tell them I do code in Java and PHP when necessary but I dislike script and byte-code languages, but I would not matter if suddenly Embarcadero did a Delphi version with Java, what matters is the IDE and the concepts (RAD Studio still has .NET and C++). I "teach" them that those languages are almost old as Pascal. I tell them that Delphi is so powerful that I can do almost anything with it (with special respect for VCL) and that is becoming a very good cross- platform software compiler, with options to OS-X and iOS. I think at creating a LT about Delphi to present it to people, because after discussion they leave not convinced. And after that I always stop later and think what if I am really wrong about it. But then I open StackOverflow I see all these splendid professional who works with Delphi and knows so much and I think back how can I be wrong!? I my region clients do not care much how the software is made as long as it works and is cheap.   1. So, I am wrong or not?**   2. **So, how about Delphi acceptance in your country's market?**   3. Is there still a place for Delphi specialized professionals, or everybody just want C# and dotNET when it comes to Windows?   4. Is it worth doing a project in Delphi and some year from now have to make a version for the web (which will take longer to be finished considering my skills)? _Please, if you do not feel comfort on this question because there might be opinion based answers, just focus on item 2, which can be based on generally statistic data._ I am my own Boss and I am starting a big project. I have to make a decision if I will go Delphi or Web. Considering that I can finish the project much faster with Delphi (experience and facilities), it's very important to know if I am choosing right. I have to consider that I have years of written code that I made and reuse.