Not sure how to title this as it's not just about that. But suppose that there is a software like .NET BCL, and you notice some places where you can make things much faster. It's not a great example but imagine you made several types like `List<T>`, etc much faster, i.e. 10x to 200x for each operation separately. Let's say you told Microsoft about it, and asked if they would consider adding your changes. What would you do if they give you only one of these options from this list:   1. They will add the code, you will no credit or money.   2. They will add the code, and give you credit, no money.   3. They won't add the code, but try to make the same changes that you showed or explained or use your code as an "inspiration", but not credit or money.   4. They won't do anything and you will just publish your code as your own library somewhere. Considering this would be something you could use in your resume, would you consider any of these? Because if you say you helped Microsoft to optimize/improve X, Y, Z 100x, etc, it should help you in getting a job, right? I mean not solely but something that might not be found in almost no other resumes. If they offer #1 or #3, what does that tell you about the company? Should you go for #4 then? I mean #4 is fine but if .NET has 10 million users, you can maybe reach a couple thousands by publishing your stuff as 3rd party since most people don't download extra libraries I think. Also this thing I am describing is not a full-time thing but more like "along the way" effort to increase your value since you did the work anyway. So it's not like you are doing it for them. Or do you think companies can take this kind of stuff as hostile or offensive since you basically showed their software engineers, they can't write performant software with all their engineering degrees which you might not have. It's fair to assume they aren't trying to be loose on performance for .NET The reason I am asking about this is because some companies seem very hesitant on giving credit where credit is due. But credit is free, so why would they resist? If all it takes is typing your name somewhere, why would they refuse? Any ideas on this?