I am a solo developer working on a decently small project with about 3 other people (non-developers). These other people are involved in the project in non-development ways and one is also my manager. Everyone is pretty open to ad hoc discussions, too. My manager just gave me what seems like a dream come true - I was tasked with determining what meeting structure would work best for the project. This seems like a wonderful way to deal with meeting overload and/or pointless meetings. With great power comes great responsibility, as now, if I suggest something which ultimately results in much wasted time it's my fault. I have never had such a blank slate to think how I would structure meetings. My thoughts are:   * Daily "touch base/status update" meeting for 15min or less (similar to standup meetings) to communicate daily objectives and review previous day. Or, it seems I could just get a whiteboard and put it at my desk to communicate this info.   * As needed meetings to make specific decisions or address questions any of the team has ... I don't see the need for a weekly "status" project meeting. I'm also not sure the second bullet would require many formally scheduled meetings. My concern is these "developer focused" (ie me) might cause alienation with others or make my manager feel a loss of control on the project, as this structure would be considerably different than most projects are run. What project meeting structure should a single developer choose? * * * Addressing comments: > What are the other people contributing? Are they the intended users of this > project? Working on non-development aspects of it (such as website themes & > images or a DBA, or QA testing)? Other levels of management/administration? They are some of the eventual users and are interested in the overall workflow. They are also contributing to several areas of forms/documents (the format of which will not affect any development work). > Are you able to get feedback from the other two members? Some managers need > to have a regularly scheduled meeting or they'll never be able to fit it > into their schedule. Getting time does not seem to be a problem going forward.