There is a point in time where you make design choices and debate them with management. In my case I have to debate my positions and design choices with senior management but it is frustrating that management only strives for performance while I think stability is a must while performance can be achieved later. E.g. We are facing a design choice to make a recovery mechanism due to lack of transactionality in certain processes i.e. we need to guarantee transactionality of a those processes making them complete fully or rollback the changes it made to database. The current code makes this difficult because we are using stored procedures that manage their own transactions. This means that if the process calls 3 or 4 stored procedures, there is 3 or 4 transactions and if we want the recovery process we need to rollback those changes (yes, they are committed at that time, this means that we need to make more transactions to the database in order to leave it in a consistent state or at least somehow "ignore" those records). Of course, I wanted to remove the transactions from the stored procedures and commit the transaction in the code after the process ends or rollback there if the process has exceptions. The case is that management thinks that this approach will make the process slow and also will impact greatly in our code. I think this is correct but also I think that making the rollback process ourselves is plainly reinventing the wheel, error prone and IMHO it will take too much time in stabilize. So, after the previous example, **What could be the most beneficial approach in such cases?** I mean, I want a Win-Win situation but I think it is just plainly impossible to agree on this because every time I want to talk about it I get responses like "there should be another way", "you should not tell me there is no way around", "this is not factible", "the performance will degrade", etc. and I think I will end making this faux recovery process just to comply with management. OTOH I could be wrong and I should do what is told to me without complaining.