I recently got my Computer Science degree and was recruited by an SAP Partner as a "SAP NetWeaver Consultant" (at least that's what the boss calls me). The job placement stated that no previous experience in SAP nor ABAP was essential, and it also stated that the employee would be trained accordingly. I have zero background in SAP and ABAP (nor do I have any worth mentioning working experience as I'm 21 years old), I'm working with this company for one month (the only employee of the company is the boss actually). The first task I had to do was to create a new development package, including domains, data elements, structures, tables, table-types, classes, interfaces, function groups, reports, the customization of a number of BADi implementations, etc., of a system that was optimized and redesigned (by the boss). How I accomplished the above (still trying actually), was by having one or two examples by the boss of how to create each of the aforementioned things. Most of the above were no problem at all, but now that I have moved into coding, I have some huge issues. First of all, as mentioned above, I have no previous experience with SAP nor ABAP, that means that I'm ignorant when it comes to the capabilities of the language, the syntax, statements, etc., and everything around SAP NetWeaver and the ABAP Development Workbench. I have to create some simple nested loops for fetching some specific components of each of the objects contained in a structure, which structure is contained in another structure and is included in a table type. For instance... I have a function that derives all the rental objects included in a contract, and for each of the rental objects, I have to derive some specific components of all their architectural objects. While this would be easy to accomplish in a language that I already have some expertise. I have some pretty hard time trying to do it with my current skills in ABAP. I mean, even the difference in the LOOP functions messes with my ability to code, even the fact that I'm trying to comply with the naming conventions addressed by the client makes me look at everything twice for understanding what I'm actually writing. I can't even handle the debugger properly. I am sorry for all the information provided above, but I had to introduce you to the situation before asking my question. All the boss has given me is an ABAP Objects book and the access to the system of course. Is that what I should expect by training? While the boss was rather amazed at how fast I could re-create all the development objects to the new package, and make all the appropriate changes in the documentation, translation, naming etc..., he now thinks that I don't know what a structure, table or loop is. And the fact is, that I do know all the above, but not in ABAP... I do not know how to proceed or how should I approach my issue, the boss can't waste much time with me, as he is all the time running to clients and also designing and implementing add-ons by himself. Should I expect something more from his part?