I've been building a large web application for a company. Initially the project owner appointed a Graphic/Web designer to complete all design/front end works. Me and who ever I bring in to complete back end and all the view binding at the front. The initially front end/graphics guy dropped out and was replaced with a (better) graphic designer who ISN'T producing the html/css required. This deficit caused many months of overrun with me having to try to introduce front end devs to complete the missing pieces. On top of that, numerous articles of the initial spec have been changed and several items added. A month or so ago after receiving an incredibly aggressive phonecall from the project owner decided I was no longer interested in being involved in the project. Obviously all the source code, all documentation etc belong to the client for them to bring in another party. I at this point had been paid 2/3 of the agreed sum. Also shouldered hosting costs myself. The clients response was immediately to threaten me with legal action claiming I'd be breaching our contract by not completing and that I had already breached our contract by running over on delivery dates. He also stated that he felt it would be impossible to replace me on the project because of the obscure technology I'd selected to build it (ASP.Net MVC). He suggested he would intend to attempt to recoup all monies paid so far and damages that he "calculates" (see:made up) to be about £70k. I do a lot of work for a company who's MD is a corporate lawyer. Who's confirmed that technically both parties are in breach of contract, but that's justified by the unforeseen changes in replacing designers etc... I've continued working to now. My (a little long-winded) question is morally and practically what would you do? I'm owed 1/3 of the remaining contract and hosting fees. (about £3500 total) They have lined up another .Net dev to build on the out of spec items as I've stated they're not my responsibility. The site is just undergoing bug/acceptance testing/fixing which the client doesn't believe they should have any involvement in. Should I stick around for the cash, which also ties me into any corrective maintenance for 2 months. Or do I write it off as a "make sure to re-agree terms when big things change" lesson?