I am creating a Mobile application (CRM) for another software company. They told me they need these these stuff from here and there, within 15-30 minutes. But they never provided a detailed client requirement document in writing. I have been asking this for number of times, but still no. As soon as I started working I realized what they told by mouth is not even 10% of the work. They first asked me to come up with my own design which is similar to another app they mentioned. I did, 100% similar design to the app they mentioned. Then they said they don't like it so they gave me their design. I completed there design and submitted it. Now they again say they don't like their own design and asking me to do another design! Apart from that, they are asking for some "Activity Sliding Animations", "Windows Like UI" etc now. In order to do this, I need to remove the entire work I did and start from the scrach, because it can be done by Fragments and mine contains Activities. I even have no idea how the backend will be. Even after one month, we are still designing and changing the designing (Because you have to send at least 3-4 mails, contact at least 2 of their team via phone to get an answer. Very slow communication). And will they pay for the trashed designs? I don't think so. So what about the other customers of mine which I said 'no' due to the lack of time I am going to have because of this project? I feel almost crazy. They always say come up with your own idea, but that is very risky in this situation. If my idea is not accepted, waste of time and money. I am so tired of this, I wasted lot of time designing two 100% different designing, and about to proceed to 3. Since I don't know how the software will be, I haven't done a cost estimation as well. So my question is, client is not supposed to give you any documented requirement? May be an SRS? (What I meant by SRS is, complete detailed document about functionality they need. Including these 'animation' stuff, because I have no super power to guess) The requirement doc they provided is useless, it only says "update", "delete", "edit". All my other clients did provide complete data, some even provided drafts of the design process, except this one. They should at lease ptovide me their requirements in details, in writing, I need some advice here.