I hope someone can help me with this, as I'm thoroughly stuck. I'm working with a group at my university, on a first semester research report that should end up as a finished program, solving the problem described below. We've been mulling over this issue for a few days now, and I promised I'd find a good place to ask for some help with the underlying algorithm. Any help received will naturally be credited in the report. I thought I could handle this as a linear assignment problem, but either I'm missing something, or (most likely) I have too many dimensions to work with it in this way. I'm not necessarily looking for a finished solution to the issue, as even hints that points me in the right direction would be very welcome. # Description of the problem   * There are group rooms, group clusters, and groups.      * A group room can hold a varying number of groups, between 1 and 12. They're placed on different wings, floors and even in different buildings, which brings a distance element into it.     * A group cluster holds a varying number of groups too. More details to follow.   * Groups need to be assigned to a group room with the following priorities that I've thought about implementing as weights:      1. Groups inside clusters should stay as close together as possible. This means that if possible, they should be in the same 'area', such as the same wing or floor.     2. For group rooms that supports more than one group; they should never contain groups from two different clusters.     3. Clusters can have bonds to other clusters, which means that the algorithm should favour them being near one another. Again, I'm thinking this has to be doable with weights.     4. If clusters need to be split up, then ideally they'd be split into as few parts as possible -and- be placed as close to the other part of the cluster (or parts), as possible.     5. Splitting up a cluster onto more than one building should incur a pretty large penalty.     6. Finally; in the event that there aren't enough group rooms for all the groups, it should incur a pretty high cost, so as to ensure that as few groups as possible are without a group room. # Need more information? Please do not hesitate to ask for clarifications, if need be. I'd love to get this solved in the best way possible.