I am 3 months into learning java, read head first java and made 4 things on my github + many small things. I also started learning android this month, but now am tossing and turning not knowing my next step. I applied to a few jobs and no call backs but have been getting noticed at least. My background is business and I have experience in QA. I have taught myself a lot but never really saw a need to learn algorithms or big o notation, I noticed that most people talking about this go to university and are applying to google or a big fortune 500 company. I have read so many success stories of people teaching themselves programming in 1 year with no background and they never talked about algorithms and still got jobs, but yeah most of them were web developers or android. I also hear that they mainly ask algorithm questions to students because they know students might not have much of a portfolio, so if I have a good portfolio would that negate the need to focus on algorithms? I don't know what kind of career I want so I am applying to anything java/android but no web related jobs as I am not interested. I know html/css/rdmbs/sql. TBH, I just really want to spend the next month or 2 learning more android and than apply for jobs after I put some apps on the market. I also want to finish making java projects to learn core java. The problem is time, I am unemployed and every month goes by looks bad to an employer. I don't want to spend 2 months learning android than 2 months playing with java, if after all that I still have to spend a few months learning algorithms. I feel if its THAT necessary, should I drop everything and focus on interview algorithms and such? I am hesitant to learn something I won't use much JUST for an interview, at least at my current intern level. I studied javascript and jquery before but I never used them, and its as if I never studied them when I think about it. I am aiming for small companies or startups who want an intern to grow with and train. Are these algorithm questions mainly asked for people aiming at the big four? thanks for any tips, I have currently a few pdfs on algorithms and MIT free course to look at...not sure where to start...