## Question I want to put a phone/tablet app on Github and want to allow full rights for using, studying, sharing and modifying the source code, but disallow any redistribution of executables that result from modified code. The purpose of this second requirement is that I want to make it illegal for users to remove or redirect in-app payments. The actual app will be free. So, my requirements are:   * License must support forking on Github and therefore both modification and redistribution of source code by others (this excludes license-free distribution covered by plain copyright, Ms-RSL, and also CC BY-ND as it doesn't draw a distinction between source code and executables)   * License should permit redistribution of "Standard" executables - the ones originating from my version of the source code - but must not permit any distribution of "Modified" executables (this excludes any license that conforms to the Open Source or Free Software Definitions) (I'm aware that there is pirating is happening on especially Android app stores, I'm willing to live with that as pirates would have to both edit code and redistribute the modified version before I potentially take a hit from it. Even then, I could theoretically go after them through legal means.) ## Prior research The Artistic License starts off great by saying: > (1) You are permitted to use the Standard Version and create and use > Modified Versions for any purpose without restriction, provided that you do > not Distribute the Modified Version. but then goes on allowing Modified Versions if they're marked as sufficiently distinct from the Standard Version. qmail relied on plain copyright (shipping without any kind of license) to ensure that the Standard Version is not tampered with, and people were providing patches for its source code to provide other users with their modifications. That's _almost_ good enough for my purposes, in that others would be free to fork my own source code repository, however, forking someone else's modified repository would be illegal so I actually need a license to make that possible. This question brings up a related problem, but I chose to open another question because (a) the question does not deal with redistributing source code, as is required by Github, (b) none of the answers in there satisfy the requirements, (c) the original poster already accepted an answer that works around his requirements, so the question is basically closed, and (d) it's worded unnecessarily specific to Android and open source. That question was the closest match I was able to find on here. In the interest of minimizing license proliferation, I'd like to use an existing license. However I've exhausted my knowledge of licenses and googling skills, and didn't end up with anything that satisfies these (fairly simple and potentially popular?) requirements. Is anybody aware of a license that I could use or do I have to roll my own?