If this is tl;dr, scroll down to "The Question" ### Why this is not a duplicate: The linked question talks about version control (which I have), a one step build script (which I have) and to "have an issue tracker at all" (which I have, but I'm having trouble optimizing), none of the answers to that question answer any of my questions. This question is not about "minimum subset", it is about practical issues in a specific real world situation. ### Background: I am the sole developer at my company, which is only 5 people. Only one of my coworkers has any development experience, and he is not working on any of the production code. He is my boss, but he doesn't have any interest in the details in specific issues. My job is honestly more of a side project of one of the partners (my boss's boss), the company already makes money from things that have nothing to do with me. He is reluctant to give me more resources until I can prove that this project has viability; once I do, he plans to give me a lot more resources, but until then this is my situation. ### The issue: As a result, I am finding it challenging to use my project management platform (currently Redmine). I think that if there were more programmers or even testers, it would be a great communication tool. However, because I am doing 100% of the development work and 95% of the testing, it just seems like a massive time sink to keep the cases up to date, and sometimes even to create them! Most of the time, when I find a bug, I just fix it immediately. The only time it ever makes it into the issue tracker is if it's not something I can fix and test in less than half an hour. As the only programmer, there is no code review. No one who works here is interested in using my redmine server; I'm lucky if I get a bug report via email, usually they just walk over to my desk and tell me - and even that is rare. I have tried to get my boss to use the server by making him watcher of many of the cases, and having it email him when I make changes, but he hasn't even logged onto it in the last 3.5 months. Before I was using redmine, I was using Wunderlist - and honestly that seemed to be a much better fit. It was definitely inferior from a features standpoint, but it did the job - I could make notes of things much more quickly. Note: I am comfortable with my version control routines, most of the time; this is much more about issue tracking and communication with the non- developers. ### The Question: I would appreciate input on any of these questions:   * As a lone programmer, do you prefer a full featured issue tracker like redmine or a simpler personal organization system like Wunderlist or Evernote? \-- If you use redmine or similar, do you use most of the features?   * Any tips for getting YOUR BOSS who has had zero interest in using an issue tracker in the past to start using it?   * When testing existing code (assume code that was not written with TDD), if you find a bug, in what situations to you add the issue to the issue tracker?   * Any other advice that seems relevant for me.