Over last several months I had written some good piece of numerical software in C# in .NET 4.0. Currently it has only versions for Windows XP/Vista/7/8/8.1 but thanks to Mono/Xamarin it wouldn't be too hard to port it to Linux, Mac OS and even to mobile devices. The software has some really nice features of programs like Mathematica, Matlab but it's easier and faster (and of course not that huge). But still it has: real and complex charts of any custom function, support for most of the special functions (bessel, gamma, mathieu etc), scripting language with easy matrix calculations, scientific calculator, numerical calculations etc. It has less bugs and more features every day because I really love to work on this. I was working on this software mainly as a hobby but few of my friend who are testing it told me that it is really good so I started to wonder how can I make money on it (or should I even try this). If I even try to publish it as a commercial product what should I do? I consider some options.   1. Make it free&open source, I would not make any money of it then but I would get a lot of users and popularity. It might be the best option for the development of my software. Still I feel like when it will be free and open source I would waste a lot of time on working for free.   2. Make it freeware on desktop but charge (or put ads in it) on mobile devices. It sounds reasonable but porting it on mobile devices would consume much time and I would need a lot of time to develop many different versions.   3. Make it commercial software. It could be nice if I will find people who will want to buy my application but it has many difficulties in it. I dont have any experience there, problems arrive: how should I charge for this, code obfuscation, key licensing etc. Any help would be appreciated here on how to do this.   4. Something else? I have some other questions too, e.g. what I need to do in the start. I guess I need to create support website and put some bug tracking software? Any components would you recommend for this (support website+ bug tracking software)?