I can't discuss specifics but let me begin by inserting you into a fictitious scenario that closely mimics the one I'm in. You have just been brought in as a engineering consultant to help finish an application fairly large in scope and addressing a problem domain you are unfamiliar with. For fun, lets just say its a flight control system for an alien spacecraft that crash landed on earth a few years ago. The current developer and his team have been working on this alien FCS for some time now, but have not meet the contractual obligations, or the timelines set forth, and the company that has brought you on has decided to not renew the contract with the current developer. You have only a few days (maybe one or two phone calls worth of time actually) to pick his (the developer) brain on everything and anything he and his team has done up to this point on the project before the contract expires. The problem is you don't know enough about implementing flight control systems in alien spacecraft to really know what to ask. You know the following things about the project and the developer:   * It is fairly well documented, both in code and wiki-documentation, eliminating the need for many technical questions   * The developer isn't always truthful and/or goes on tangents about unrelated things when asked simple questions SO - what kinds of questions do you spend the precious little time you have on to get the most out of this developer when you don't really understand all the ins and outs of the system you have been hired to assist with? Seriously, any feedback would be great on this. **EDIT:** I really appreciate the feedback so far, some good suggestions have been made and I have already begun the process of formulating some good questions based on the advice given. One thing I forgot to mention is that there are team members from both sides on any given phone call so it's not really possible to ask questions where fingers would get pointed. Unfortunately, this implied requirement of delicacy will surely cause some issues to remain hidden.