Recently I have been thinking of converting some ideas into apps with couple of like minded friends. Our app will have an module, where users must include an instant messaging. The requirement for the IM right now is pretty basic:   * Send/receive messages(No MIME).   * View user status available/offline.   * Sent/delivered messages status. First we thought GAE(Google App Engine) would be a good choice with what is provides on free quota and we could start with it. But, after researching and researching and brain storming for some time, I came to realize following (This is according to my understanding):   * XMPP implementation in GAE cannot maintain session to have available/offline status. This logic must be implemented on our side.   * XMPP implementation in GAE cannot maintain sent/delivered messages status. This logic must be implemented on our side. Maintaining such statuses on our own will consume more API calls and our app might soon be throttled. And as an user I wouldn't want my messages to be delayed. So after further research, I came down to Openfire for back-end but, Openfire wouldn't completely solve our mobile needs. And after more research I came to know about ejabberd. There are quite a lot advantage of ejabberd over Openfire but, the main would be that major IM players like whatsapp and nimbuzz uses ejabberd. I am sure they must have modified it to fit there need. Since, we are not trying to solve the IM problem, the main focus of our app is on something else. This requires communication with back-end, which means we also have to deploy our web services somewhere. Since GAE mentions that "Sockets are not supported on GAE", we cannot have our ejabberd service running over there. It must be in IaaS(Infrastructure as a service) provider like EC2. Ofcourse Google has their own but, AWS offers cheaper price. Now here are some confusions and problems we are trying to solve:   1. To decrease complications, we want both the IM and WS to use same user database. Users will be assigned a random password during signup. The authentication with IM server should be done transparently without user noticing it (This is because our app uses some thirdparty like oauth providers to signup/login users). Is there any other alternative for this?   2. Considering that we want scalability in the future and I am sure, transitioning from GAE to AWS(Amazon Web Services) wouldn't be that easy (if we want it). Is it better to have both WS and IM running on the same platform? And why is it better? Is there any better alternatives?