It is one thing to say that agile methodologies are good in settings where requirements are poorly understood, or that significant novelty is involved. But should it be applied where outright innovation is required? If yes, how? If what you are contemplating is unknown in the industry, or even thought to be impossible, it may be difficult to conceive of the user stories and related tasks. For example, would it have benefitted Albert Einstein (or a hypothetical employer he reports to) to have devised the theory of general relativity by breaking it down into epics, sprints, and tasks? If the answer is "yes," then what special accomodations should have been incorporated to help an agile approach work best with Einstein's way of achieving revolutionary insight? To give a specific software example, imagine the year is 2008 and you would like to use WCF to provide COMET or "long-polling" type capabilities. All your research of "prior work" turns up nothing, and you even read an MSDN blogger say it isn't possible. Again, what adjustments or "flavor" could be brought into the user stories and tasks to accomodate the inventiveness (or audacity?) of this endeaver? Or would it indeed be better to conclude the effort is so innovative (in 2008), it is best left as an undirected think-tank exercise? The innovator who is operating under two-week sprints certainly does not want to be shot-down every time he abandons a dead-end task and starts working on a newly discovered task that was not envisioned when the sprint was defined. Likewise, when the sprint ends and no working code or working approaches are delivered, the innovator should not be shot down by management. There needs to be a way to label the effort as "success" even in these circumstances. In perhaps one or three more sprints of this kind of "dead end" pursuits, the innovator might finally hit on something that works. How does agile allow management know that each sprint was "ok" despite the innovative set-backs? How is this managed so that the burn-down chart does not look preposterous?