I would like to develop a system that is able to analize the network traffic of people using it. I am interested in the URLs that the users request. Let's say the users targeted are on iOS or Android (a PC would be too easy you had guessed!). I first imagined I could use web history to find out the relevant information I am looking for. It seems that it is not possible to do this because of the apps being sandboxed. (Rooting/Jailbreaking phones is not an option there). This being impossible, I am looking for another way to achieve my goal. I see that Onavo Extend - an app that allow users to have their data shrinked - is able to have their user's traffic sent to their servers. From what I understand, they setup a VPN connection to their servers which act like proxies. I thought I could use a similar system to be able to analyse my users' traffic but I am totally lost in all the VPN sorts and protocols. I was not able to find what kind of exact technology Onavo is using. I guess I would have to implement a VPN server with which I can extract the information I am looking for. Sadly, I have not been able to find relevant information helping me do this. So here are my questions:   1. Is there a simpler way to achieve my goal than setting up all the VPN structure?   2. If not, could you advise my on the type/technology of VPN I could use and/or point me to links that would help me build the server-side application that does the VPN proxing or just to relevant information that could help me in any way? PS: I am just trying to build a mockup to do this, not a top of the line service able to handle thousands of users. PPS: I am more focused on the server-side as I was able to find information on how to deploy profiles and setup VPN settings to the end users. I will focus on the client side once the server is ready. * * * Edit: What I want is not about real time monitoring, but more like being able to parse the requested URLs and store them (say, to a database for instance, or files, this is just a mockup) to analyze them later. As I am not able to access the user's web history, the idea is to be able to parse the traffic to build the history myself.