I'm a junior software developer, and just got this job working with a very small group of engineers. I've been coding for a few months in this group in a professional settings - before I just coded at school - and it's definitely been a learning experience. I feel like I'm taking a long time to learn - things like the design patterns, the different methods of different classes throughout the codebase - I make a lot of mistakes in my code and need to ask a lot of questions. I also think that I don't have the greatest mentorship and this is where I'm wondering if it's me being slow or I'm not in the best learning environment. Currently there's one lead engineer that reviews everyone's code and sends back feedback. In a code review, I will often get short comments such as "use XXX method here". Usually the XXX method is a method in our code base which I have never used or seen, on an object in our code base that I'm not familiar with. I'll have to ask for more clarification and extend the review process. In a case like this - is it entirely up to me to find this method and try to figure out what it does? I feel like these types of comments should have more explanation - why I should use that method and what I did wrong - but instead it's more along the lines of "do XXX". Of course I go and try and find the method, but most of the time I don't have enough experience and context to fully understand the issue. Another issue is that when I have questions and the lead engineer comes over, they tend to interrupt me, shush me (literally - they say "no, no, shhh shh" if I'm still explaining the question), take over my mouse and keyboard and just fix the issue after looking at it for a second. Usually my question will have the underlying reason for the problem I'm having (I misunderstood a concept), and if I can't express it and show the engineer where I have a wrong idea or concept then how will I be able to improve and learn? I feel like they're not correcting me and teaching me - they're just fixing the problem on my screen - but since I'm not learning, I tend to repeat it again. This is not helpful for me - I'd rather they sit with me and let **me** drive with the keyboard mouse, let me ask the question with my own words, and explain to me with words what I did wrong instead of just changing my code. Am I asking for too much? At the end of the day, I'm definitely learning and getting better, it's just been taking a long time. I'm frustrated with the lack of mentorship and guidance I have. I'm confused and feel that sometimes I'm expected to know everything that the lead engineer who's been building up this codebase on their own for the past 4 years knows. I feel like a burden when I do have questions. So, I'm wondering what is the right amount of help and guidance a junior engineer should have? Obviously I know how to use SO, I know how to search google. I'm talking about learning our code base, our patterns, and the way we do things for our product. Is my experience normal? Or am I building this all up in my head?