Recently I had to teach what my PM declared a "Best Practices Course" on programming. I decided to have them read a chapter per week of Uncle Bob's Clean Coder book while I followed a somewhat related syllabus during that week e.g. if a chapter of the book is about object orientation then I teach the S.O.L.I.D. principles; if a chapter covers testing then I teach BDD. Anyhow, when I asked for feedback I drew a lot of criticism because I always gave the "formal" definition of the concept e.g. > Let q(x) be a property provable about objects x of type T. Then q(y) should > be provable for objects y of type S where S is a subtype of T. And then tried to explained somewhat but a little less formally: > If we have a type B being a subtype of A, then we should be capable of doing > anything with B that we can do with A. And in the test I scored some answers like these: > if you give me the formal definition of the concept, you get a 0.7 points; > if you give me a non-formal definition of a concept you may get 0.7 points > based on the completeness. The rest of the point is by giving an example of > the concept. Thus everyone thought this was somewhat unfair as I somewhat pushed for memorizing definitions. Of course this was not my intention but I believe that completeness was a requisite as in previous tests they answers in form of wandering examples e.g.: > Having a lot of code in the function indicates that it is doing a lot of > things and also have a lot of concerns; making difficult to apply changes in > the code to have a better function very difficult. And this somewhat could have been better understood by citing the separation of concerns and single responsibility principles along with refactoring. Thus, I tend to believe that knowing the concepts formally and have a clear relation of the concept and the meaning is indicative of good communication skills and professionalism. Which is somewhat a goal of the course: that they communicate the ideas better by using established concepts. So, are formal concepts a necesary evil or I just screwed and should have managed the score differently?