Long ago the small team of web developer I work with started using git for web development. Back then we just committed to staging or master directly and then merged frequently between the two. It was better than nothing, but it was also a mess. Not too long ago we adopted the gitflow work flow. While it's certainly better than the chaos that came before it seems somewhat cumbersome and excessively release/milestone oriented. My fellow devs are frequently ask me to clarify how it's supposed to work and what should merge and shouldn't. In general it seems ill suited for web development work where we're deploying code frequently and without tracking specific milestones for release. On a friends recent suggestion I've begun looking at GitHub Flow. Reading Scott Chacon's post here hits the pain point perfectly with this: > So, why don’t we use git-flow at GitHub? Well, the main issue is that we > deploy all the time. The git-flow process is designed largely around the > “release”. We don’t really have “releases” because we deploy to production > every day – often several times a day. FWIW, I've also looked at this nice round up of workflows on Atlassian's site: https://www.atlassian.com/git/workflows#!workflow-feature-branch However they ALL look like poor choices for web development in a small team and again geared towards major application releases not frequent/daily releases. The is a question over on SE asking to compare git-flow to github-flow http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18188492/what-are-the-pros-and-cons-of-git- flow-vs-github-flow That's a good answer in general, but as I mentioned in my comment below meta.programmers.SE seems to indicate that questions about general best workflow practices belong here and I was hoping for a broader list of possible answers than just git-flow and github-flow, while being specific to web development. Hence I think it warrants a new question here. With that, what do you find is the best/prefered git based workflow for a small web development team working on projects with fairly continuous deployment? Is it github-flow or something else?