This is my first question here, I hope I'm not doing something wrong! I'll start by saying, I'm a 21 year old university student studying a science (this will be interesting later - you'll see why!). I came back from university for summer, and got myself a job at a web design firm in the town I live in. My parents had arranged the work while I was away, as they are a client of said firm. They were explicit in my requirement for earning some money whilst home for summer. I've been doing web design as a hobby for about 6 years, PHP/HTML/CSS/JS as well as C#/Java/vb.NET/Python. The day came to start work, I was enthusiastic and worked hard. The company is run rather badly, and since I started they've fired 2 of the other developers (out of a team of three) after seeing how little they really knew. The boss praises me daily, and asked me to even quit university to come and work for him. I politely declined, as it would be a waste of my time spent at university so far. Anyway, this is beside the point. Last friday (a week before I was due to finish) me and the boss have a meeting to talk about how much I will be paid. I wasn't expecting a fortune (I freelance for £16/hr, I was expecting less than half of that). Stupidly, when I started I didn't sign a contract regarding pay. And this is where the whole situation has devolved. I've spent 5 weeks there, 9-5, 5 days a week. I usually work through lunch, to impress the boss (hoping for a little bonus). So I've racked up some 200 hours of work in this time. The boss opens up the meeting asking how my "experience" has been. I tell him I've learned very little because I've been mentoring the other developers almost every day on best practises (they're still using image for buttons...) and introduced them to icon fonts, SASS, and other things to improve workflow. He accepts this, saying me being there has really opened his eyes (he's a non-developer, the root of his problems right there). Anyway, he tells me times are hard, and normally they don't pay people on "work experience". I immediately call him up on this, stating that I wasn't here for work experience, but to earn money. He shrugs it off, and says that I'm lucky to be getting anything. And offers me £2.50 an hour, meaning that after 5 weeks I've earned £500. And to make matters worse, I'm not confident I will be paid at all. I realise this is my fault, because no terms were agreed prior to me starting, but I assumed (wrongly) he would be fair and pay me in good faith. I've been working, for the past week, on a project that nobody else there can do (its really just a laravel site, responsive, from a design), and I've also written an API interfacing library to handle grabbing raw data from the Northern Ireland Tourist Board for one of their clients, along with all the other day-to-day work I have done for them. At the end of the week I will be expected to hand in this code (for the main project) and I was wondering if there are any legal grounds I can stand on. The main thing I'm worried about is that I hand in the code, and don't get paid at all. Could I perhaps license the code and prevent it's use? I guess I own the code? No company assets were used, all code was pulled directly via composer. I guess I did it while at the company, but its all on my laptop, and if I'm not being paid for the time spent there, does the company own it at all? The only issue I see is that the design was given to the company I work for by the client, and the client had that designed by another company. I wasn't planning on using the design, selling it or otherwise. Normally, I wouldn't be like this, I'm not a greedy person. But my living depends on this money. I only have a mere £1900 to live on for the whole year at university after paying for accommodation. So a decent wage would have really helped me in this regard. Any help on proceeding would be greatly appreciated! Tom