I'm a systems administrator and am also pursuing a more specific career in development. I started about a year and a half ago with Javascript and C#/.NET ... one day I decided I wanted to learn Java. Then I have found myself amazed with all of the options available and the community seems wonderful and I think the JVM is a great piece of technology and development platform. However...one thing about Microsoft is that everything is completely out of the box. If you want to build an infrastructure or just a simple app then you are dealing with one technology, one vendor, one IDE, one set of forums ... you just point, click, develop. I know there have been huge strides made with Java. More specifically I am spending most of my time with the Pivotal stack. Spring, Spring Boot, Grails, etc. But because there are so many options and everything is so open it seems that the tutorials on different sites are kinda hard to follow and because everything is changing so fast I finally find a good book or tutorial and the layout for everything just changes. I am able to build simple Java apps and I can also get a Grails project up and running in an instant. Also the Play! framework ... wow. But the point is .. just wanting a little bit of advice as someone who is new to Java development. I know that if I can just dig through all of these XML files and just figure it all out that I'll be able to really start taking advantages of these technologies. Just wanted to know if there is a de facto tutorial I should start with. Spring is pretty easy even though sometimes my stuff just ... doesn't work. Even when I'm following the guide on the site. And another part of this question is should I go with Maven or Gradle? I haven't used any of these tools. Is this supposed to make everything easier? All the projects I have created have come straight from the IDE (Spring Tool Suite). .. Ok this is getting long .. I really want to get an application up and running with Spring Data/Rest and start building an Angular JS frontend. Lots of options..a little overwhelming. But want to learn it well and the only thing I miss about .NET is the ease of use. Anybody feel anything similar when learning Java web development? Whats the best place to shut up and start?