I have always been an outgoing guy, who likes to make jokes and be funny. Although this is apparent to everyone I meet, whether it be at a party or just participating in a conversation. It's just who I am. Now when I was in ninth grade in a new school, where nobody knew who I was. I was trying to make friends like any other freshman would in a new school - high school no less. So in class I would joke around talk to people trying to make friends; I used the skills I had cracking jokes making people laugh etc. Now when the end of the first semester rolled around our school was in the habit of highlighting the students that made it to the honor roll in front of the entire school in the gym. No they had two levels of of recognition honor roll and high honor roll. Now the usual suspects go up and claim their two minutes of fame. Then high honor roll came around, my name was called out utter silience hit my friends' faces wondering how I managed to achieve this when i am always joking around and just didn't see me as intellectual person at all. Regardless of whether or not my report card read like someone screaming for dear life (AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA). I was always well liked and enjoyed surprising people, when they would underestimate me; I relished it in. I always enjoyed shocking people, and making them eat their words. Something I always lived with. Now after graduating I have title which designates me some respect depending on which social circles you hang in (heres looking at you designers). I am afraid that my outgoing nature is going to cost me a promotion, or management not seeing the entire person I am. It has burnt me in the past while in university working for people who only saw the light hearted joking I put forward, and putting other people in positions that I was better qualified for. As a programmer, I know my work will speak for itself but they might see the joking as irresponsible or ignorant. He lack responsibility, all the things associated with people who make jokes. Should I stifle myself so people see how I truly am? Or continue to wait for the opportunity to shock them, that don't always present themselves, since there is no honor roll at the end of the semester. Please and thank you, xoxo Gossip Girl (just kidding)