Over the past 2 years myself and a colleague have built an online statistical analysis application using a mixture of silverlight, wcf and R. I (a c# programmer) wrote all the silverlight and wcf stuff whilst my colleague (a statistician) came up with the stats algorithms and wrote the R code. Now we think that this app is fairly unique - a rich gui online statistics application that is much more intuitive than all the other online stat apps that I've seen. But despite this we don't really know where to go with the project, mainly for the following reasons: 1) Its fairly complicated stuff - without the mix of programming and stats skills it would be difficult for anyone to "get into" the project and contribute. 2) We are stalled by a lack of a proper place to host the site. Currently it sits on the family windows 7 media centre, not exactly the best place to host it as it could interfere with the missus trying to watch Corrie/Friends/Oprah etc. Soo, anyone got any ideas on how to move forward with this? I guess that my strength is programming not marketing so despite working hard at this for the past couple of years I feel that I've reached a dead end! Also, does anyone know of any free windows hosting for open source projects? If I could find a proper place to put the app I might feel re-energised about the whole thing. The source code is on codeplex at: http://silverstats.codeplex.com, whilst the app is currently hosted at http://silverstats.co.uk Edit: to answer some of the points raised: I don't have any documentation so that is a valid point and something that I need to look at. However, I do believe that it is easy to use - try it yourself! It is drag and drop based and fairly intuitive (as long you have some stats knowledge). One point though: Its not aimed at statistians! Its aimed at people who need to do stats to do their job (which is why it is easy to use). Personally on an ease of use basis it beats the like of Rcmdr hands down! You are quite right that the R and stats geeks will continue to tap away at R and SAS and produce their scripts. So, to answer another question: Is it scriptable - of course not because that would defeat the ease of use concept, you might as well fire up R and tap away... Does it produce graphics: yep - output is nice and clean in html with some expalantory text for the people scared by stats. Is it validated, yes and no...the project is a spin off from our closed source (but free!) stats package called InVivoStat (google it) which was built with the same aim: to make statistics easy for non-statisticians, in this case scientists working in the life sciences. The R scripts that InVivoStat uses are fully GxP validated with evidence hosted on the InVivoStat website. This project (SilveR) uses the same scripts, so you could argue that a bit of revalidation is required as the interface has changed, but I am fully confident that the R scripts are correct.