How easy (or difficult) is it to have a Continent/Country/City drop down menu? Where one select from Drop Down Menus (for example): 1 - Europe 2 - UK 3 - London and then writes the Province/Area (for example: Essex). Realistically, how long should it take an experienced web developer to write the code of the above, as well as to link this selection to a Browse function and database storing? I do not have a geographical database yet and I am wondering what the fastest and cheapest way to add it to the drop down menu is. Is there any way to get that geographical database for free? I can see this type of geographical drop down menu in thousands of websites, but I am struggling as to how to implement it ASAP. * * * Follow Up: Tks All x your answers and comments so far. I hear what you are saying. I understand that there are rare occasions of Countries with multiple (same) name Cities and that it might be disputable whether a Country belongs to a certain Continent/Region or not (see Russia x example, Europe or Asia?). Anyway, please take a look, for instance, at this website Sign UP screen http://www.couchsurfing.org/register.html My question then is: Where do I get that list (Country/Cities) and how do I create that _array? Manually copying it somewhere else (which would take me ages) or are there ready made lists that can be downloaded from somewhere for free? * * * Follow Up n2: No way I plan to re-write the whole planisphere! I do agree, to a certain extent, that the number of Countries on this Planet is not fixed and this very issue is arguable (I've Googled: "How many Countries are there in the world?" and realized that there are different answers, however, I haven't got time to keep up to date with the ever shifting political landscape and engage into such debate). Irrespective of the argument between the Commentators below, all I just need is a straight and practical solution: a ready made list (database) of Countries/Cities (to use as _Array) in my DropDownMenus, exactly like the one on http://www.couchsurfing.org/register.html Has anyone got a clue where to get that list please?