> **Possible Duplicate:**   >  How old is "too old"? Most developers I know pushed really hard to get ahead in their careers early on, then maybe slowed down about 10 to 15 years in to marry and raise a family. I didn't. I had a family early in my career, knowing that children were more important to me than my career. I will be in my early 40's when my children are going to college, and it seems that I might be able to take advantage of the lull in my responsibilities and get ahead at a level of experience where so many developers are slowing down to spend more time with their families. However, I'm also wondering if the effort would pay off that late in life. Specifically, I'm concerned about age-ism, especially as a woman in development. Women are affected by age-ism more strongly in most careers, and development seems to be far more biased towards youth than most fields. I also know the women who are in software development are fairly likely to leave the field at ages 35 to 40, although I wonder if that is related to delayed childbearing in this field more than anything. Can an older developer reap the same benefits of intense work that younger developers receive? Or will I automatically be perceived as "stable" and "jaded" at that age, regardless of my interest in moving ahead and investing lots of time into my career once the kids are grown? Would I be better off planning on starting my own business at that time if I want to make a large investment in my career and have it pay off (financially)? ETA: A little clarification: I expect to work between now and then, and grow on the job. So I would be a very senior SDET by that age. I don't expect to have trouble getting a job at that point; my question is more about climbing the ladder to get promotions and pay increases. I see the work the VP of tech does, and it looks fun - but he got to that point by rising quickly early in his career. Can I make the same rise later in my career? Or will I be limited to the rate of growth in position that I achieve in my earlier career?