I recently got into web development through the PHP framework, CodeIgniter. I knew some PHP before I started learning that framework and overall I found it very easy to learn. The CodeIgniter documentation made it really easy to get started and figure out what each specific helper/library/function accomplished and how it was used. After making a somewhat basic CMS/Forum in the framework, I decided to start learning Rails and see which one I liked more. Needless to say, I've had a somewhat difficult time understanding Rails. I'm not sure if Rails just takes more time to learn, doesn't fit my way of thinking, or if I'm using the wrong book to learn. I've been working through http://ruby.railstutorial.org/ with little success. I understand many of the main points, but I feel as though I lack any real understanding. There seems to be a lot going on 'under the hood' with Rails compared to CodeIgniter. I tried looking at the Rails API for help, but didn't find much help there. I'm more or less looking for a book or reference sheet that clearly outlines what each specific line of code is doing or what's going on behind the scenes. Something similar to the CodeIgniter documentation or a book that has less words and more basic examples for each aspect of the framework. I've also tried reading through Why's poignant guide to Ruby, but that had far too much talking and not enough examples or clear documentation. I feel like it's the easiest for me to learn something when it's heavily tied to basic logic/math. In the end I believe that it will just end up being a combination of the Rails API and spending more time working with the framework; however, I'm hoping that someone learns the same way that I do and has a suggestion. Again, I'm very new to programming and haven't spent more than 40 or so hours working with PHP/Ruby combined, so I apologize if my question doesn't make sense or if it's just a matter of putting a lot more time into it. If Ruby doesn't seem like the right language for me, would Python be a better option? My plan was to build something basic with PHP/Python/Ruby and decide which I liked the best. **TLDR:** Trying to learn Rails in limited free time. Finding that it's taking a lot longer to learn than CodeIgniter. Not sure if I just haven't been able to find a book/reference sheet similar to the CI documentation. Looking for suggestions or advice. Thanks in advance for any advice or suggestions.