I've spent the past 2 years teaching myself and taking classes on object oriented programming. I have done quite a bit of Java programming, and lately I've been spending a lot of time doing objective-c. I really enjoy programming, but one thing that I have noticed (with some frustration) is that I'm not amazing at finding elegant solutions to problems. I'm beginning to notice that it isn't enough to just solve a problem, but that the way you approach and implement a solution says a lot about you as a developer and depth of your knowledge and understanding. Being that I am looking to make a career out of iOS development (I'm still in college), I want to be sure that I am doing everything I can to learn elegance, as opposed to just getting it done. Case in point: For one of my first programming projects for school (this was a long time ago!), we needed to populate arrays with tons of information. I went through and added each element line by line just hard coding the index! When the TA came by he laughed at me and was like: "Why didn't you just use a for- loop?" and I thought to myself, well who cares? It works doesn't it? **My Question to iOS devs out there:** What are some things that I can study/try to implement to increase the elegancy of my design habits? What are examples of things that are often done in the app development world by rookies that just shouldn't be done? Instead of just being able to throw a quick and dirty hack job of a solution together, I want to be able to consistently come up with awesome ways to solve problems! And I've realized that those types of solutions don't always come quickly to me. Is this skill something that can only be acquired through experience and doing it wrong tons of times before you realize that there is a better way? Are there any areas that you can recommend I try to cover and make a point of understanding? While I am happy that I can keep up with many of the q's posted to sites like this, I get frustrated when I see some that are just in a whole different universe! I want to close the gap, and so I am throwing this out there to any who may be interested/able to help. Thanks!!