The biggest trouble anyone can ever face... which is the root case of the issue which I have mentioned in my previous question. This man was one of my best colleague I have worked with 2 years back where he was not having any responsibility of a team lead. After 2 year, I got a chance to work in a similar project under his supervision. I knew him during my old project days and he is a WORKAHOLIC but never even came in my wildest dream that he will be the same after becoming a supervisor and ruin my and my colleagues sleep. How do I handle his behaviors such as:   1. He believes that, we should preach our code every day and thats our bread and butter.   2. He treats all his sub-ordinate as inferior and his idea/solution is the final. A strong valid and fighting point(which mostly I come up with) can only change his mind.    3. I feel so pity for my co-developers when he treats them like slaves who writes code for living.    4. He never encourages any co-workers, he is doubtful on everyones work... for him 100% output is 100xN% effort put by the developer.   5. He never consider anyone individuality or freedom to express... de-motivates to the hell.   6. Weekends are his favorite working days... sends mails, review comments etc which give added pressure to the peer group.   7. He never mind how long we burn the night lamp... but we should be in office next day at 8:30 sharp.   8. He is the only person I have seen who works for atleast 8 hrs when he takes vacation and he expects others to work even if you are in vacation or at home.   9. Developer who are favorite for him are always right.. rest everyone are wrong.   10. If he can work for 10 hrs, he expect every to work along with him. If he is not sleeping at 12, then why should the developer sleep... they should stay awake with him. The only per who was able to handle him and with minimal experience like I mentioned above behavior from him is me, just because he is a good friend of mine. My peers and I find no use of giving feedback for his behavior because he always say that I am verystern and no one can change my decision. How can I help him to change his approach of work... or am I wrong here?