I'm a high school student, currently finishing my grade 12 year of high school. I have already been admitted into a software engineering program at at least one university, and I have decided on this as a career choice. I have taught myself almost everything I know about programming, and have worked on numerous open source projects. This past year, I wrote a website for my school, working with a team of ~3 people to do so, learning many things about git source control, and other skills related to working with a team on projects like this. In order to finance my education, I will need to get a summer job of one sort or another. Although I have no objection to working at the local grocery or tech store, I would prefer a job related to the career I will be pursuing long-term, as I believe it will   1. Be more interesting   2. Look better on a resume   3. Teach me more   4. Possibly be better payed (not a primary motivation, just a thought) My issue is, I have no idea where to start, or what companies, if any, will hire me. I have looked into GSOC, but I do not turn 18 until the fall, and as such am ineligible. I have considered going around to various local companies and asking if they want their website done/redone, but even then i'm not sure of the best way to go about it. Going the way of the entrepreneur is also a possibility, but could be risky as a summer job that my education depends on, especially considering I have very little experience deploying things in the real world. Furthermore, coming up with a product that would generate me enough profit over the course of a summer seems extremely unlikely, given that wild successes like Youtube and Facebook were not profitable for several years after they started. So, ultimately, my question is:   * Is it worth the effort to look for a programming-related job, since I am under 18 and don't have a degree? Do I have a decent chance of getting one?   * If it is worth the effort, where should I start my search, and what advice do you have regarding this search? Are there specific companies or websites you would recommend for my case? Not sure if this question is off-topic for this site, but I have seen several others asking for career advice, and this seems to fall under that same category. Let me know if there is anything I should do to make it clearer.