This question is related to my another questions asked to HN community http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2450143 Here is the summary of above thread: I asked HN community if we should give 2nd and 4th Saturdays off to our developers? Right now we have 1st and 3rd Saturdays off only and we work on others. OR We should have some fun, events, pet projects, movies, informal one to ones etc on those 2 Saturdays? What should be a better option for our 7 years old, small IT service company of 50 developers? I got lot of good responses. Most of them says "Give them OFF" :) I still want to try giving these 2 Saturdays to developers to do their own stuff. They can improve communication, writing skills, write blogs, work on pet projects etc etc. I wanted to know what are the other non-programming activities we can do for programmers. I am sure I am gonna get lot more good answers from this community :) Update: Well I guess that didn't go very well with everyone. Thanks for commenting and answering anyway. But I think, it will be very hard for you to understand the context I am coming through. It is my mistake that I could not explain it properly here. It is pretty common to work on Saturdays in developing countries like India. You guys are fortunate to be liberated much earlier than us (Assuming you are from US and developed European countries). Your grand fathers and great grand fathers built your country working probably 7 days a week and you are earning benefits of their hard work now by working 5 days a week. And some of you may be proposing 4 days a week too now. We still have to play catch up game and we can not afford to have leisure of working limited number of hours every week. Probably our children or grand children will enjoy working 4 or 5 days a week consistently. I am not against 5 days a week or 4 days a week here. But we have many more areas to improve up on as programmers and as individuals. English not being our native language, we have to work hard on improving English. Writing skills, Technical improvements, there are so many things we have to work on. And not every programmer is as motivated to do on his/her own. They need some guidance. We want to spend those 2 days helping them do that for their own good. Company is not going to earn from those 2 days. Yes in long term it will benefit company as well but it will be more beneficial to them. So I came here to understand from experts like you guys, what programmers can do to improve up on. We as a company will help them do that. No offense to anyone, but I hope this clarifies, why I asked this question.