Having "completed" my task, I have recently been assigned by my PM to work on a maintenance project by another PM. In this other project, the client wants to add new features and I'm assigned to do a feature. I'm finding my job over my head for various reasons:   * code is difficult to understand/read as      * not well-documented     * standard naming convention is not followed (seems non-existent, and confusing at times because certain words are used in the wrong way)     * dead-code     * redundant code     * code such as (isTrue == true)     * temp variables that are not inlined and not prefixed with temp     * etc...   * visual sourcesafe is used   * visual studio 2005 is used, even though they have vs2008 and vs2010. I'm unable to use a plugin for quick navigation (more of an inconvenience)   * they just want to get things working, without caring about maintainability. I would love to refactor the code base, and suggest upgrading to svn and a newer version of VS. However, I don't feel that the PM or my new colleagues are amenable to such changes. On top of that, I don't have the confidence of delivering on time (if I'm even able to deliver), and if I do make these suggestions, he may assume that I think I feel that I am superior (not true) and I am competent enough for my assigned task, making it difficult for me to raise issues in the future. I just don't feel I have sufficient experience yet for a project of this complexity, and will likely end up writing copy-and-paste and googled code with lots of unpaid overtime. I will get surface learning without deep learning, and I feel the entire experience will mar my joy of programming, perhaps making me shun it completely. In the meanwhile, if I do nothing about it, I will probably just have to slog it out within the current constraints. To this end, I have borrowed books on brownfield application development and visual sourcesafe as references. What should I do? Should I make my suggestions? How early should I tell him if I don't feel I can deliver? Or should I just slog it out while risking not being able to get my task done?