I'm planning to provide a little service with which you can control your computer from anywere. It exists out of a server (which I will be providing), and two clients (a controlled one and a controlling one). Now I want to provide that service for a little fee. However, the server is actually a small old Dell laptop with a broken screen at my home with Ubuntu as OS. It's not very reliable, but I want to use it, because it's cheep. Now, as I said already, the laptop maybe isn't the most reliable machine, along with my Internet connection, which also can go down if there are some unexpected problems. But I don't want to take risks, and let the user, before he pays, know that this can occur. But I also want me to be safe, so I won't need to give any money back. It is my first application that I will be giving away for a little fee, and I don't know about the legal responsibility I have to take. Basically I don't want to give any money back, even at a 100% downtime (which will be very unlikely), but I also don't want it to be my fault if someone loses data, by using my software, even if it is a bug, or someone intercepted his data. So, I have put this in the agreement, and this only. Is it enough and is it legally binding? What should I also know? >   * iControl actually implements a client-server-client protocol, where one > client let's the other client execute a shell command. Then the controlled > client will return the termination status, the standard output, and the > standard error of that command. >   * iControl uses no encryption to send data over the network. It is a > potential security risk to use this service, because all data is sent raw > over the network. You can compare it with the FTP protocol, the HTTP > protocol, which you're using right now, and the telnet protocol. >   * iControl's maker does not in any way stand in for the damage this > service can do. Not by misuse by the user, not by a bug in the software. No > illegal activities maybe done using this service. The provider of this > service may suspend you from his service at any time without an explanation, > without a money-back guaranty. The collector of the rent fees does not need, > in any circumstances, to return the payed money. >   * The iControl service is maintained by one man and one man only. Any > downtime of the used server may occur. In case of any length of downtime, > the service provider does not have to give any money back, however he'll do > his best to make you as happy as possible by trying to make the service be > up all of the time. > I'm planning to let the user check a box that they read this and agreed to it, when they register. Is this enough?