Hello fellow designers, I need your help yet again. As you all know from my last question that I am new to the design industry (and a recent graduate). This is turning out to be an obstacle in my profession. The client I am working with now, insists on changing everything I ever present to him. I am working on redesigning his website, making a new brochure designs, visiting cards, new logo and new advertisement that would go on newspapers once the job is complete. I started with the logo, as that was the most basic block of any business. I did a lot of research, put a lot of time on it thinking and rethinking about what the business represents and came up with one that would represent the business in all its entirety. As I am a freelancer, I usually meet up with clients every tuesday morning to show them the progress and changes etc. Thats where the problem comes in. My client feels the need to change everything I have ever done. Color of the logo, size of it, font (he wanted papyrus font and failed to convey him the point of why it should be avoided) and so on. Thats only the beginning of the problem. Once we finish the discussion, he shows it to his wife (a sweet lady in her late 30's) and their 4 kids (17, 13, 10 and 8 year olds) and each of them have their own opinion and he changes his mind and emails me - forcing me to redo a lot of stuff. Now, I have read the queen and the duck problem and such and I even tried adding a "duck" once but it back fired when the client went all shaky and blamed me for having no design sense. So, how do I convince him to let me do my job? is there any article on this world wide web that I could make him read that conveys him the point? let me assure you, he thinks that he is a general public and so if he likes the public will like it too, which is why he is holding me as a hostage to his desires. thank you. edit: also, I have read few articles like the ones on smashing magazine but they are all in the point of view of web-designers and not for the clients. I dont want to show my client articles like those. thanks.