I have a problem on reporting progress to my employer. I am a part-time programmer, handling a software project for my school's (non-technical) department. Contact person:   1\. The staff who actually uses the software and raises feature requests,   2\. My boss (non-programmer), and she is not the software's user. The project's nature:   It is a ready-made software, which has been bought from third-party. I have to modify or add feature/function to this software in order to cater for department's need. This is a software is need to use throughout the semester. Not all features needs to be used at the beginning. Hence we are using the Agile model: When the staff needs a certain feature, they raises a request, and I make the changes. By the end of the semester, I suppose all the required features will be raised and implemented. The problem:   Everytime my boss asked me how the progress, I can't answer, because I don't know how to answer. I don't have complete list of all the required features. Even though I have completed features which were raised last week, I still can't tell my boss I have "completed", because new features are coming in too, and I don't know how much. I can't tell "We have how many % completion" nor "We are going to complete it by xxx". Sometime out of 3 requests, I manage to complete 2, I would tell my boss "I have completed 2, but there is one feature not complete yet". After a long period of time, I sounds like "I always have something not finish, after so long". Being unable to report the progress makes me looks really bad. It's not about how much I've done, it's about how to let people know. If I were the manager, and my staff keep failing to report the progress to me for months, I will feel this guy is incapable too. Do you guys have any idea how to report, or answer question as simple as "what is the status / progress of the software modification"? **UPDATE** My boss doesn't involve in development task directly, so she doesn't have a clue on what I am doing, or how the program works. We don't meet regularly as she is busy, and I feel it will be waste of time because she is not the main user, she doesn't know the detail of the program. I meet regularly with the staff who uses and knows better about the software. I feel hard to explain the progress to my boss.