I wrote a program in PHP. I want people to be able to use the code to learn from and even include bits in their own apps but I also want to maintain the right to sell it and make it clear that others are not to distribute copies either for free or for profit. I haven't used anyone elses code so I don't have to worry about license compatibility. Which license out there is right for that? I know I can't stop people from ignoring the license but I just want them to at least know it's there and know they're doing something wrong if they try. I can't find anywhere that explains licenses in plain English and yes, I have tried to read the GNU and BSD licenses but I can't get it. Thanks. Ok so here are the clarifications other have asked for: I am going to sell this program for very cheap. People are free to use as much code as they want from it so long as they have first purchased the program and they do not profit from my code. I wouldn't mind if people just took the whole thing and added on and made it better but then people wouldn't be honest and they would just add something on and give it free and then no one would buy my product. I suppose I should just let people have it and ask for donations. So maybe I should GPL or BSD it. EDIT: I understand why everyone is getting confused. It is contradictory but the thing about legalese is that everything seems black or white. I'm trying to achieve a gray area. I want people to buy this thing from me, not copy it and give it away to people, and even use parts of it. By "use parts", what I'd say if someone asked me casually would be "just be reasonable". So basically don't use a majority of my code in your work and then totally outshine what I did because you'll have it easy as I did most of the dirty work already! I mean, sure, use my DB connect script in your project, I don't care. OR... use all the code and add to it! But only for personal use and don't you dare start giving it out because I'm going to be making money off this thing and that totally undermines my work. And it'd be nice to show me your additions and I'll give credit but the main thing is don't be redistributing my software that I have to earn a living with. Its hard to put that sentiment into legalese. And I just can't understand all these licenses.