I joined my company 2 years back which is a startup company that has been around for 5 years now. From the beginning I've been working on one of the Microsoft technologies. Just after few days I joined the company I learnt that the company doesn't have a working process in place right through the software development life cycle. The employees are left unmonitored and the schedules, deadlines, milestones and the quality didn't come off as expected. I've been always passionate about programming and more importantly patterns and practices in both technical and non-technical areas and kept myself busy in my learning curve. Meanwhile the company's productivity started deteriorating every day. There is no mutual understanding between the management and the employees (just 12). The management didn't care much about the employees' benefits, their work environment, realistic schedules etc. Due to the miscalculations from the management the developer teams has been pushed to work crazy many a times. This made the employees unhappy making them to lose interest in their work. So they started producing very _bad_ results affecting the company's growth. There always was mistakes equally on both sides, the management and the employees. The trivial reason I find is that the management failed to educate employees about the process, importance of quality, software development patterns, practices etc. The management was always keen in delivering results and failing to look on 'how to' deliver the results. Recently I've been elevated to be a team leader (I just completed my 2 years) as the management believed that I have the technical proficiency as well as the managerial capabilities to handle a bunch of products. I was having a more _intimate_ relationship with my colleagues more than a _professional_ relationship. So I'm finding it very hard to employ some rules and establish a working model within the company. And so far I've been receiving adverse results if I push it a little bit more. Moreover I need to make myself qualified for this role and feel confident about the working model I propose as I've no good hand to guide on this. I kind of have more bookish knowledge rather than the practical experience. What can I do on this situation? Should I abandon the company or should I put more effort to set things right? _"In a company of 10,000 people if 5 guys fail to work properly the company can withstand it. But in a company of 10-15 people even if one guy doesn't perform well it impacts the company's growth in a huge way."_