Back on my theme of late: interview questions. Was recently asked to describe a time I'd used logging. My first instinct was to respond with compiler warnings set to full and error- out. What he was interested in was the use of logging as a debugging tool. Unfortunately I couldn't think of one at the time except the one I was assigned because clients where having issues connecting to license servers and support wanted a log. Thinking more clearly now though...I realized that I _used_ to use logging a lot, and still do in little experimental projects. I still use it when developing on Unix systems, but not so much on Windows. Why? Because as much as I despise Visual Studio and think their compiler is maybe one of the worse around (I run into numerous bugs and issues with it every day), they got the debugger right! If I could put Visual Studio's debugger on gcc built executables I absolutely would. Add to this the use of unit testing to bring things into focus, I simply haven't needed logging very much. On the other hand, maybe I'm really missing out. I have occasionally used it, and in fact some things that aren't exactly "logging" seem to me very similar. For instance, in debug mode the custom widget I created for this drawing application draws a bunch of extra visual clues representing bounding boxes and hot-spots. I also make very heavy use of assertions and exceptions. I do have a bunch of mock classes that "log" but they're never used in the real program. For example, I have a custom drawing context wrapper that allows me to use the same drawing code for various UI API's. I have a version of it that simply spits out all the commands it receives to a string that I then compare to expected results. I use this to unit test drawing code. If I where to use logging as a debugging tool I would want to do so in a consistent, standardized manner. On the other hand I'm at a bit of a loss to think of one. I suppose if I where writing something that surrounded network communication and such I would find it very necessary to have debugging logs and various verbosity outputs. On the other hand I write fairly simple UI programs by comparison. So, do you use logging? What do you use it for? How does logging fit in your coding standards?