is it more difficult to maintain moral ethics in IT industry? or it is just that this industry has its own code of conduct?. I have another profile with karmas close to a thousand. This posting is something personal, so I am posting it as anonymous. I am a software engineer.I quit my job in a service-based IT company nearly 4 months back. I have some mood disorder problem. I worked there for over an year. Worked on one project from kick-off to sign-off and worked on one phase of next very similar project. I quit the job because I needed flexibility in work timings and be able to work from home say once a week or now and then (to cope up with my health issue). This job was very low salary paying for my resume and work was very chaotic and unsatisfying in my project (on which I worked end to end) and had lost hope for better work. I didn't find any mentors or role models in the team.This being service based company, I felt like I was to give status on each day. It is true that I have to struggle to meet deadlines because of my problem. But by working on weekends/late nights, I was meeting these. But people didn't perceive it in that light.And I feel that with time, I am only growing and learning in terms of discipline and my problem is like any other health problem for which people need accommodation at work, but qualify for job. I was sincere in my work. and given this flexibility I can do my job. If not excel then at least meet expectation. I quit it, because when being on the job, my mind was always stressed and I couldn't think of what would be better job for me as a next job move, so I needed time to figure it out. Near the end, I was also feeling burned out from the project and I wanted to work on my health. For 2 months, as planned I took a break (break from career worries and career planning, but I spent my time reading things basic things which I wanted to learn like about country,culture,religion,spirituality etc) makes basis for long term peace. May be I have some degree of attention deficit disorder and I would feel blanked out on such issues. and I wanted to spend one month from my life imprinting such knowledge in my brain. then I studied for a month.(I prepared for Google,took onsite interviews,(and got rejected) so focussed on data structures,algorithms preparation along with general OS concepts) and took my focus off from applying to other places etc. Now, gradually before I realized its been a 4 months gap. When job consultants call me, they ask me why I left my previous company without any job offer in hand. I give them 3 true reasons that I wanted to work for product based company, project was over, and I was looking for a break of 2 months. They don't like these reasons. and some don't even send my resume to HR, I think. it is putting me off. What is code of conduct in IT industry? People don't do their share of work sincerely, leave project in between. get careless in work in their notice period. Is this acceptable? or may be I am surrounding by people who give me such tricks and it makes me feel that in general this is how people think. like a friend joined a company, worked there for 1 month, didnt like it and left it and didn't show it his resume and had other company waiting for him with their offer. I am thinking if I should start working on some open source project, which might count as work.or if I should recourse to a lie (and update my resume accordingly) like I had a fracture when I was about to join a new company and so had to take break and that job offer elapsed or some other health issue (which is not long term like mental health or sth) or a problem in my family consultants openly ask me if I am single or married. and some dont show interest because I am single(and of marriageable age as in India ,going by when I did undergrad) and so they think that soon I will get married and being a female is likely to relocate.some consultants openly ask if I have any other job offer in hand. Some say that companies give and set salary depending on if I am employed or not working. I listen to people saying that it becomes easy to negotiate salary once I have other job offers in hand. Is that more ethical that what I have done? I mean , salary should be set on the basis of ones experience,compatency etc rather than competing offers. I feel its difficult to maintain ones ethics during job hopping, career advancement etc in this industry. I am beginning to feel frustrated and am seeking advice from people who have undergone something similar. I think software professionals all over the world may relate it to some degree. I am based in India, so if somebody also wants to chip in with India specific advice, please feel free.