I currently work for a company that has recently downsized. I do all in-house work, client installs, builds, QA, and, well, basically all the in-house work. My direct boss is VERY nontechnical and lately I have found it VERY hard to deal with his lack of knowledge. The biggest issues I have had are as follows:   * I am on many deadlines at a time. I get stopped to put together a half fast quote as I cannot be late on the deadline, in the meantime, three support calls comes in, I give quote, time too much in quote so they outsource it. I then I have to fix everything the vendor broke which puts me behind. The worst is if I eat "His buffer" on a project I wasn't even on I am expected to complete everything already scheduled while all these other things come up.   * I get asked, when an issue arrises, why is the issue occurring and explain in detail, yet that detail means absolutely nothing to him.   * All he cares about are deadlines, yet he is the one who schedules everything.   * "I am a programmer not a graphic designer, means nothing to him"   * I was hired as a .NET programmer, yet they let a vendor choose wordpress for many sites(yeah I had to learn all about it quick) I guess I can go on and on, but has anyone had to deal with this type of project manager? What is some advice, other than finding another job? I cannot leave my job at this time as I cannot lose my insurance right now as my wife is very ill with MS. I am looking for the best way to deal with my manager. Thanks in advance, and I made this a wiki, so please don't close. Here is another situation that happened today. We have a friend of mine who assists me on projects. He asked us "BOTH" to quote out a job and give a rough estimate. I came back to him and said" 7 weeks 6 hours day a day using my friend as a resource." He gave it to the client and added 10% buffer(24 hours). He then tells me that is all I get my friend for on the project. I wasn't asked how much time he was available for during the 7 weeks. Worst part is they already gave the quote to the client and didn't even have me review. His view is well you either get it done in the time I told him or find another job.